pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew.
acetate: A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base orpositive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.
acetated: Combined with acetic acid.
acetification: The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,or of becoming converted, into vinegar.
acetifier: An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight.
inauration: The act or process of gilding or covering with gold.
inauspicate: Inauspicious [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.
inauspicious: Not auspicious; ill-omened; unfortunate; unlucky; unfavorable."Inauspicious stars." Shak. "Inauspicious love." Dryden.-- In`aus*pi"cious*ly, adv.-- In`aus*pi"cious*ness, n.
inauthoritative: Without authority; not authoritative.
inbarge: To embark; to go or put into a barge. [Obs.] Drayton.
inbeaming: Shining in. South.
inbeing: Inherence; inherent existence. I. Watts.
inbind: To inclose. [Obs.] Fairfax.
inblown: Blown in or into. [Obs.]
inboard: Inside the line of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; the opposite ofoutboard; as, an inboard cargo; haul the boom inboard.
inborn: Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inbornpassions. Cowper.
inbreathe: To infuse by breathing; to inspire. Coleridge.
inbred: Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth. "Inbred sentiments."Burke.
inburning: Burning within.Her inburning wrath she gan abate. Spenser.
inburnt: Burnt in; ineffaceable.Her inburnt, shamefaced thoughts. P. Fletcher.
inburst: A bursting in or into.
inc: A Japanese measure of length equal to about two and one twelfthyards. [Written also ink.]
inca: The people governed by the Incas, now represented by theQuichua tribe. Inca dove (Zoöl.), a small dove (Scardafella inca),native of Arizona, Lower California, and Mexico.
incage: To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up. [Written alsoencage.] "Incaged birds." Shak.
incagement: Confinement in, or as in, cage. [Obs.] Shelton.
incalculability: The quality or state of being incalculabl
incalculable: Not capable of being calculated; beyond calculation; verygreat.-- In*cal"cu*la*ble*ness, n.-- In*cal"cu*la*bly, adv.
incalescence: The state of being incalescent, or of growing warm. Sir T.Browne.
incalescency: Incalescence. Ray.
incalescent: Growing warm; increasing in heat.
incameration: The act or process of uniting lands, rights, or revenues, tothe ecclesiastical chamber, i. e., to the pope's domain.
incan: Of or pertaining to the Incas.
incandescence: A white heat, or the glowing or luminous whiteness of a bodycaused by intense heat.
incandescent: White, glowing, or luminous, with intense heat; as,incandescent carbon or platinum; hence, clear; shining; brilliant.Holy Scripture become resplendent; or, as one might say, incandescentthroughout. I. Taylor.Incandescent lamp or light (Elec.), a kind of lamp in which the lightis produced by a thin filament of conducting material, usuallycarbon, contained in a vacuum, and heated to incandescence by anelectric current, as in the Edison lamp; -- called also incandescencelamp, and glowlamp.
incanescent: Becoming hoary or gray; canescent.
incanous: Hoary with white pubescence.
incantatory: Dealing by enchantment; magical. Sir T. Browne.
incanting: Enchanting. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
incanton: To unite to, or form into, a canton or separate community.Addison.
incapability: Want of legal qualifications, or of legal power; as,incapability of holding an office.
incapable: Unqualified or disqualified, in a legal sense; as, a man underthirty-five years of age is incapable of holding the office ofpresident of the United States; a person convicted on impeachment isthereby made incapable of holding an office of profit or honor underthe government.
incapableness: The quality or state of being incapable; incapability.
incapably: In an incapable manner.
incapacious: Not capacious; narrow; small; weak or foolish; as, anincapacious soul. Bp. Burnet.-- In`ca*pa"cious*ness, n.
incapacitate: To deprive of legal or constitutional requisites, or of abilityor competency for the performance of certain civil acts; todisqualify.It absolutely incapacitated them from holding rank, office, function,or property. Milman.
incapacitation: The act of incapacitating or state of being incapacitated;incapacity; disqualification. Burke.
incapacity: Want of legal ability or competency to do, give, transmit, orreceive something; inability; disqualification; as, the inacapacityof minors to make binding contracts, etc.
incapsulate: To inclose completely, as in a membrane.
incapsulation: The process of becoming, or the state or condition of being,incapsulated; as, incapsulation of the ovum in the uterus.
incarcerate: Imprisoned. Dr. H. More.
incarcerator: One who incarcerates.
incarn: To cover or invest with flesh. [R.] Wiseman.
incarnadine: Flesh-colored; of a carnation or pale red color. [Obs.]Lovelace.
incarnate: Not in the flesh; spiritual. [Obs.]I fear nothing . . . that devil carnate or incarnate can fairly do.Richardson.
incarnation: The union of the second person of the Godhead with manhood inChrist.
incarnative: Causing new flesh to grow; healing; regenerative.-- n.
incarnification: The act of assuming, or state of being clothed with, flesh;incarnation.
incase: To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround withsomething solid.Rich plates of gold the folding doors incase. Pope.
incask: To cover with a casque or as with a casque. Sherwood.
incastellated: Confined or inclosed in a castle.
incastelled: Hoofbound. Crabb.
incatenation: The act of linking together; enchaining. [R.] Goldsmith.
incaution: Want of caution. Pope.
incautious: Not cautious; not circumspect; not attending to thecircumstances on which safety and interest depend; heedless;careless; as, an incautious step; an incautious remark.
incavated: Made hollow; bent round or in.
incavation: Act of making hollow; also, a hollow; an exvation; adepression.
incaved: Inclosed in a cave.
incaverned: Inclosed or shut up as in a cavern. Drayton.
incedingly: Majestically. [R.] C. Bronté.
incelebrity: Want of celebrity or distinction; obscurity. [R.] Coleridge.
incend: To inflame; to excite. [Obs.] Marston.
incendiarism: The act or practice of maliciously setting fires; arson.
incendious: Promoting faction or contention; seditious; inflammatory.[Obs.] Bacon.-- In*cen"di*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
incensant: A modern term applied to animals (as a boar) when borne asraging, or with furious aspect.
incensation: The offering of incense. [R.] Encyc. Brit.
incense: Breathing or exhaling incense. "Incense-breathing morn." Gray.
incensed: Represented as enraged, as any wild creature depicted with fireissuing from mouth and eyes.
incensement: Fury; rage; heat; exasperation; as, implacable incensement.Shak.
incenser: One who instigates or incites.
incension: The act of kindling, or the state of being kindled or on fire.Bacon.
incensive: Tending to excite or provoke; inflammatory. Barrow.
incensor: A kindler of anger or enmity; an inciter.
incensory: The vessel in which incense is burned and offered; a censer; athurible. [R.] Evelyn.
incensurable: Not censurable. Dr. T. Dwight.-- In*cen"sur*a*bly, adv.
incenter: The center of the circle inscribed in a triangle.
incentive: That which moves or influences the mind, or operates on thepassions; that which incites, or has a tendency to incite, todetermination or action; that which prompts to good or ill; motive;spur; as, the love of money, and the desire of promotion, are twopowerful incentives to action.The greatest obstacles, the greatest terrors that come in their way,are so far from making them quit the work they had begun, that theyrather prove incentives to them to go on in it. South.
incentively: Incitingly; encouragingly.
inceptive: Beginning; expressing or indicating beginning; as, an inceptiveproposition; an inceptive verb, which expresses the beginning ofaction; -- called also inchoative.-- In*cep"tive*ly, adv.
inceration: The act of smearing or covering with wax. B. Jonson.
incerative: Cleaving or sticking like wax. Cotgrave.
incertain: Uncertain; doubtful; unsteady.-- In*cer"tain*ly, adv.Very questionable and of uncertain truth. Sir T. Browne.
incertainty: Uncertainty. [Obs.] Shak.
incertitude: Uncertainty; doubtfulness; doubt.The incertitude and instability of this life. Holland.He fails . . . from mere incertitude or irresolution. I. Taylor.
incertum: Doubtful; not of definite form. Opus incertum (Anc. Arch.), akind of masonry employed in building walls, in which the stones werenot squared nor laid in courses; rubblework.
incessable: Unceasing; continual. [Obs.] Shelton.-- In*ces"sa*bly, adv. [Obs.]
incessancy: The quality of being incessant; unintermitted continuance;unceasingness. Dr. T. Dwight.
incessant: Continuing or following without interruption; unceasing;unitermitted; uninterrupted; continual; as, incessant clamors;incessant pain, etc.Against the castle gate, . . . Which with incessant force and endlesshate, They batter'd day and night and entrance did await. Spenser.
incessantly: Unceasingly; continually. Shak.
incession: Motion on foot; progress in walking. [Obs.]The incession or local motion of animals. Sir T. Browne.
incest: The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between personsrelated within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.Shak. Spiritual incest. (Eccl. Law) (a) The crime of cohabitationcommitted between persons who have a spiritual alliance by means ofbaptism or confirmation. (b) The act of a vicar, or otherbeneficiary, who holds two benefices, the one depending on thecollation of the other.
incesttuous: Guilty of incest; involving, or pertaining to, the crime ofincest; as, an incestuous person or connection. Shak.Ere you reach to this incestuous love, You must divine and humanrights remove. Dryden.-- In*cest"tu*ous*ly, adv.-- In*cest"tu*ous*ness, n.
inch: An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off thecoast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. [Scot.]
inchamber: To lodge in a chamber. [R.] Sherwood.
inchangeability: Unchangeableness. [Obs.] Kenrick.
inchant: See Enchant.
incharitable: Uncharitable; unfeeling. [Obs.] Shak.
incharity: Want of charity. [Obs.] Evelyn.
inchase: See Enchase.
inchastity: Unchastity. [Obs.] Milton.
inched: Having or measuring (so many) inches; as, a four-inched bridge.Shak.
inchest: To put into a chest.
inchipin: See Inchpin.
inchmeal: A piece an inch long. By inchmeal, by small degrees; by inches.Shak.
inchoate: Recently, or just, begun; beginning; partially but not fully inexistence or operation; existing in its elements; incomplete.-- In"cho*ate*ly, adv.Neither a substance perfect, nor a substance inchoate. Raleigh.
inchoation: Act of beginning; commencement; inception.The setting on foot some of those arts, in those parts, would belooked on as the first inchoation of them. Sir M. Hale.It is now in actual progress, from the rudest inchoation to the mostelaborate finishing. I. Taylor.
inchoative: Expressing or pertaining to a beginning; inceptive; as, aninchoative verb. "Some inchoative or imperfect rays." W. Montagu.-- n.
inchpin: The sweetbread of a deer. Cotgrave.
inchworm: The larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid.
incicurable: Untamable. [R.]
incide: To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as bymedicines. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.
incidence: The direction in which a body, or a ray of light or heat, fallson any surface.In equal incidences there is a considerable inequality ofrefractions. Sir I. Newton.Angle of incidence, the angle which a ray of light, or the line ofincidence of a body, falling on any surface, makes with aperpendicular to that surface; also formerly, the complement of thisangle.-- Line of incidence, the line in the direction of which a surfaceis struck by a body, ray of light, and the like.
incidency: Incidence. [Obs.] Shak.
incident: Dependent upon, or appertaining to, another thing, called theprincipal. Incident proposition (Logic), a proposition subordinate toanother, and introduced by who, which, whose, whom, etc.; as, Julius,whose surname was Cæsar, overcame Pompey. I. Watts.
incidental: Happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; comingwithout design; casual; accidental; hence, not of prime concern;subordinate; collateral; as, an incidental conversation; anincidental occurrence; incidental expenses.By some, religious duties . . . appear to be regarded . . . as anincidental business. Rogers.
incidently: Incidentally. [Obs.]
incinerable: Capable of being incinerated or reduced to ashes. Sir T.Browne.
incinerate: Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed. [Obs.] Bacon.
incineration: The act of incinerating, or the state of being incinerated;cremation.The phenix kind, Of whose incineration, There riseth a new creation.Skelton.
incipient: Beginning to be, or to show itself; commencing; initial; as,the incipient stage of a fever; incipient light of day.-- In*cip"i*ent*ly, adv.
incircle: See Encircle.
incirclet: A small circle. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
incircumscriptible: Incapable of being circumscribed or limited. Cranmer.
incircumscription: Condition or quality of being incircumscriptible or limitless.Jer. Taylor.
incircumspect: Not circumspect; heedless; careless; reckless; impolitic.Tyndale.
incircumspection: Want of circumspection. Sir T. Browne.
incised: Having deep and sharp notches, as a leaf or a petal.
incisely: In an incised manner.
incisive: Of or pertaining to the incisors; incisor; as, the incisivebones, the premaxillaries.
incisor: One of the teeth in front of the canines in either jaw; anincisive tooth. See Tooth.
incisory: Having the quality of cutting; incisor; incisive.
incisure: A cut; an incision; a gash. Derham.
incitant: Inciting; stimulating.
incitative: A provocative; an incitant; a stimulant. [R.] Jervas.
incite: To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on.Anthiochus, when he incited Prusias to join in war, set before himthe greatness of the Romans. Bacon.No blown ambition doth our arms incite. Shak.
inciter: One who, or that which, incites.
incitingly: So as to incite or stimulate.
incito-motor: Inciting to motion; -- applied to that action which, in thecase of muscular motion, commences in the nerve centers, and excitesthe muscles to contraction. Opposed to excito-motor.
incito-motory: Incitomotor.
incivil: Uncivil; rude. [Obs.] Shak.
incivilization: The state of being uncivilized; want of civilization;barbarism.
incivilly: Uncivilly. [Obs.] Shak.
incivism: Want of civism; want of patriotism or love to one's country;unfriendliness to one's state or government. [R.] Macaulay.
inclamation: Exclamation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
inclasp: To clasp within; to hold fast to; to embrace or encircle.[Written also enclasp.]The flattering ivy who did ever see Inclasp the huge trunk of an agedtree. F. Beaumont.
inclaudent: Not closing or shutting.
inclavated: Set; fast; fixed. Dr. John Smith.
inclave: Resembling a series of dovetails; -- said of a line ofdivision, such as the border of an ordinary.
incle: Same as Inkle.
inclemently: In an inclement manner.
inclinableness: The state or quality of being inclinable; inclination.
inclination: The angle made by two lines or planes; as, the inclination ofthe plane of the earth's equator to the plane of the ecliptic isabout 23º 28'; the inclination of two rays of light.
inclinatory: Having the quality of leaning or inclining; as, the inclinatoryneedle.-- In*clin"a*to*ri*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne.
incline: An inclined plane; an ascent o
inclined: Making an angle with some line or plane; -- said of a line orplane.
incliner: One who, or that which, inclines; specifically, an inclineddial.
inclining: Same as Inclined, 3.
inclinnometer: An apparatus to determine the inclination of the earth'smagnetic force to the plane of the horizon; -- called alsoinclination compass, and dip circle.
inclip: To clasp; to inclose.Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips. Shak.
incloister: To confine as in a cloister; to cloister. Lovelace.
incloser: One who, or that which, incloses; one who fences off land fromcommon grounds.
incloud: To envelop as in clouds; to darken; to obscure. Milton.
included: Inclosed; confined. Included stamens (Bot.), such as areshorter than the floral envelopes, or are concealed within them.
includible: Capable of being included.
inclusa: A tribe of bivalve mollusks, characterized by the closed stateof the mantle which envelops the body. The ship borer (Teredonavalis) is an example.
inclusion: A foreign substance, either liquid or solid, usually of minutesize, inclosed in the mass of a mineral.
inclusively: In an inclusive manner.
incoach: To put a coach.
incoagulable: Not coagulable.
incoalescence: The state of not coalescing.
incocted: Raw; indigestible. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
incoercible: Not capable of being reduced to the form of a liquid bypressure; -- said of any gas above its critical point; -- alsoparticularly of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide,formerly regarded as incapable of liquefaction at any temperature orpressure.
incoexistence: The state of not coexisting. [Obs.] Locke.
incog: Incognito. [Colloq.]Depend upon it -- he'll remain incog. Addison.
incogitable: Not cogitable; inconceivable. Sir T. More.
incogitant: Toughtless; inconsiderate. [R.] Milton.Men are careless and incogitant. J. Goodman.
incogitantly: In an incogitant manner.
incogitative: Not cogitative; not thinking; wanting the power of thought; as,a vegetable is an incogitative being. Locke.
incogitativity: The quality of being incogitative; want of thought or of thepower of thinking. Wollaston.
incognitant: Ignorant. [Obs.]
incognito: Without being known; in disguise; in an assumed character, orunder an assumed title; -- said esp. of great personages whosometimes adopt a disguise or an assumed character in order to avoidnotice.'T was long ago Since gods come down incognito. Prior.The prince royal of Persia came thither incognito. Tatler.
incognizable: Not cognizable; incapable of being recognized, known, ordistinguished. H. Spenser.The Lettish race, not a primitive stock of the Slavi, but a distinctbranch, now become incognizable. Tooke.
incognizance: Failure to cognize, apprehended, or notice.This incognizance may be explained. Sir W. Hamilton.
incognizant: Not cognizant; failing to apprehended or notice.Of the several operations themselves, as acts of volition, we arewholly incognizant. Sir W. Hamilton.
incognoscible: Incognizable.-- In`cog*nos"ci*bil"i*ty, n.
incoherentific: Causing incoherence. [R.]
incoherently: In an incoherent manner; without due connection of parts.
incoherentness: Incoherence.
incoincidence: The quality of being incoincident; want of coincidence. [R.]
incoincident: Not coincident; not agreeing in time, in place, or principle.
incolumity: Safety; security. [Obs.] Howell.
incomber: See Encumber.
incombine: To be incapable of combining; to disagree; to differ. [Obs.]Milton.
incombustibility: The quality of being incombustible.
incombustible: Not combustible; not capable of being burned, decomposed, orconsumed by fire; uninflammable; as, asbestus is an incombustiblesubstance; carbon dioxide is an incombustible gas. Incombustiblecloth, a tissue of amianthus or asbestus; also, a fabric imbued withan incombustible substance.-- In`com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.-- In`com*bus"ti*bly, adv.
income: That which is taken into the body as food; the ingesta; --sometimes restricted to the nutritive, or digestible, portion of thefood. See Food. Opposed to output. Income bond, a bond issued on theincome of the corporation or company issuing it, and the interest ofwhich is to be paid from the earnings of the company before anydividends are made to stockholders; -- issued chiefly or exclusivelyby railroad companies.-- Income tax, a tax upon a person's incomes, emoluments, profits,etc., or upon the excess beyond a certain amount.
incomity: Want of comity; incivility; rudeness. [R.]
incommensurability: The quality or state of being incommensurable. Reid.
incommensurable: Not commensurable; having no common measure or standard ofcomparison; as, quantities are incommensurable when no third quantitycan be found that is an aliquot part of both; the side and diagonalof a square are incommensurable with each other; the diameter andcircumference of a circle are incommensurable.They are quantities incommensurable. Burke.-- In`com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.-- In`com*men"su*ra*bly, adv.
incommiscible: Not commiscible; not mixable.
incommixture: A state of being unmixed; separateness. Sir T. Browne.
incommodate: To incommode. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
incommodation: The state of being incommoded; inconvenience. [Obs.]
incommode: To give inconvenience or trouble to; to disturb or molest; todiscommode; to worry; to put out; as, we are incommoded by want ofroom.
incommodement: The act of incommoded. [Obs.] Cheyne.
incommodious: Tending to incommode; not commodious; not affording ease oradvantage; unsuitable; giving trouble; inconvenient; annoying; as, anincommodious seat; an incommodious arrangement.-- In`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.-- In`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.
incommodity: Inconvenience; trouble; annoyance; disadvantage; encumbrance.[Archaic] Bunyan.A great incommodity to the body. Jer. Taylor.Buried him under a bulk of incommodities. Hawthorne.
incommunicability: The quality or state of being incommunicable, or incapable ofbeing imparted.
incommunicable: Not communicable; incapable of being communicated, shared,told, or imparted, to others.Health and understanding are incommunicable. Southey.Those incommunicable relations of the divine love. South.-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*ble*ness, n.-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*bly, adv.
incommunicated: Not communicated or imparted. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
incommunicating: Having no communion or intercourse with each other. [Obs.] SirM. Hale.
incommunicative: Not communicative; not free or apt to impart to others inconversation; reserved; silent; as, the messenger wasincommunicative; hence, not disposed to hold fellowship orintercourse with others; exclusive.The Chinese . . . an incommunicative nation. C. Buchanan.-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ly, adv.-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ness, n. Lamb.His usual incommunicativeness. G. Eliot.
incommutability: The quality or state of being incommutable.
incommutable: Not commutable; not capable of being exchanged with, orsubstituted for, another. Cudworth.-- In`com*mut"a*ble*ness, n.-- In`com*mut"a*bly, adv.
incomparable: Not comparable; admitting of no comparison with others;unapproachably eminent; without a peer or equal; matchless; peerless;transcendent.A merchant of incomparable wealth. Shak.A new hypothesis . . . which hath the incomparable Sir Isaac Newtonfor a patron. Bp. Warburton.-- In*com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.-- In*com"pa*ra*bly, adv.Delights incomparably all those corporeal things. Bp. Wilkins.
incompared: Peerless; incomparable. [Obs.] Spenser.
incompass: See Encompass.
incompassion: Want of compassion or pity. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.
incompassionate: Not compassionate; void of pity or of tenderness; remorseless.-- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.-- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ness, n.
incompatibility: The quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency;irreconcilableness.
incompatible: Incapable of being together without mutual reaction ordecomposition, as certain medicines. Incompatible terms (Logic),terms which can not be combined in thought.
incompatibleness: The quality or state of being incompatible; incompatibility.
incompatibly: In an incompatible manner; inconsistently; incongruously.
incompetent: Wanting the legal or constitutional qualifications;inadmissible; as, a person professedly wanting in religious belief isan incompetent witness in a court of law or equity; incompetentevidence.Richard III. had a resolution, out of hatred to his brethren, todisable their issues, upon false and incompetent pretexts, the one ofattainder, the other of illegitimation. Bacon.
incompetently: In an competent manner; inadequately; unsuitably.
incompetibility: See Incompatibility.
incompetible: See Incompatible.
incomplete: Wanting any of the usual floral organs; -- said of a flower.Incomplete equation (Alg.), an equation some of whose terms arewanting; or one in which the coefficient of some one or more of thepowers of the unknown quantity is equal to 0.
incompletely: In an incomplete manner.
incompleteness: The state of being incomplete; imperfectness; defectiveness.Boyle.
incompletion: Want of completion; incompleteness. Smart.
incomplex: Not complex; uncompounded; simple. Barrow.
incompliable: Not compliable; not conformable.
incompliant: Not compliant; unyielding to request, solicitation, or command;stubborn.-- In`com*pli"ant*ly, adv.
incomposed: Disordered; disturbed. [Obs.] Milton.-- In`com*po"sed*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- In`com*pos"ed*ness, n. [Obs.]
incomposite: Not composite; uncompounded; simple. Incomposite numbers. SeePrime numbers, under Prime.
incompossible: Not capable of joint existence; incompatible; inconsistent.[Obs.]Ambition and faith . . . are . . . incompossible. Jer. Taylor.-- In`com*pos`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]
incomprehense: Incomprehensible. [Obs.] "Incomprehense in virtue." Marston.
incomprehensibility: The quality of being incomprehensible, or beyond the reach ofhuman intellect; incomprehensibleness; inconceivability;inexplicability.The constant, universal sense of all antiquity unanimously confessingan incomprehensibility in many of the articles of the Christianfaith. South.
incomprehension: Want of comprehension or understanding. "These mazes andincomprehensions." Bacon.
incomprehensive: Not comprehensive; not capable of including or ofunderstanding; not extensive; limited.-- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ly, a. Sir W. Hamilton.-- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ness, n. T. Warton.
incompressibility: The quality of being incompressible, or incapable of reductionin volume by pressure; -- formerly supposed to be a property ofliquids.The incompressibility of water is not absolute. Rees.
incompressible: Not compressible; incapable of being reduced by force orpressure into a smaller compass or volume; resisting compression; as,many liquids and solids appear to be almost incompressible.-- In`com*press"i*ble*ness, n.
incomputable: Not computable.
inconcealable: Not concealable. "Inconcealable imperfections." Sir T. Browne.
inconceivability: The quality of being inconceivable; inconceivableness.The inconceivability of the Infinite. Mansel.
inconceivable: Not conceivable; incapable of being conceived by the mind; notexplicable by the human intellect, or by any known principles oragencies; incomprehensible; as, it is inconceivable to us how thewill acts in producing muscular motion.It is inconceivable to me that a spiritual substance should representan extended figure. Locke.-- In`con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.-- In`con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.The inconceivableness of a quality existing without any subject topossess it. A. Tucker.
inconceptible: Inconceivable. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
inconcerning: Unimportant; trifling. [Obs.] "Trifling and inconcerningmatters." Fuller.
inconcinne: Dissimilar; incongruous; unsuitable. [Obs.] Cudworth.
inconcinnity: Want of concinnity or congruousness; unsuitableness.There is an inconcinnity in admitting these words. Trench.
inconcinnous: Not concinnous; unsuitable; discordant. [Obs.] Cudworth.
inconcludent: Not inferring a conclusion or consequence; not conclusive.[Obs.]
inconcluding: Inferring no consequence. [Obs.]
inconclusive: Not conclusive; leading to no conclusion; not closing orsettling a point in debate, or a doubtful question; as, evidence isinconclusive when it does not exhibit the truth of a disputed case insuch a manner as to satisfy the mind, and put an end to debate ordoubt.Arguments . . . inconclusive and impertinent. South.-- In`con*clu"sive*ly, adv.-- In`con*clu"sive*ness, n.
inconcoct: Inconcocted. [Obs.]
inconcocted: Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened. [Obs.] Bacon.
inconcoction: The state of being undigested; unripeness; immaturity. [Obs.]Bacon.
inconcrete: Not concrete. [R.] L. Andrews.
inconcurring: Not concurring; disagreeing. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
inconcussible: Not concussible; that cannot be shaken.
incondite: Badly put together; inartificial; rude; unpolished; irregular."Carol incondite rhymes." J. Philips.
inconditional: Unconditional. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
inconditionate: Not conditioned; not limited; absolute. [Obs.] Boyle.
inconform: Unconformable. [Obs.] Gauden.
inconformable: Unconformable. [Obs.]
inconformity: Want of conformity; nonconformity. [Obs.]
inconfused: Not confused; distinct. [Obs.]
inconfusion: Freedom from confusion; distinctness. [Obs.] Bacon.
inconfutable: Not confutable.-- In`con*fut"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
incongealable: Not congealable; incapable of being congealed.-- In`con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.
incongenial: Not congenial; uncongenial. [R.] -- In`con*ge`ni*al"i*ty. [R.]
incongruence: Want of congruence; incongruity. Boyle.
incongruent: Incongruous. Sir T. Elyot.
incongruous: Not congruous; reciprocally disagreeing; not capable ofharmonizing or readily assimilating; inharmonious; inappropriate;unsuitable; not fitting; inconsistent; improper; as, an incongruousremark; incongruous behavior, action, dress, etc. "Incongruousmixtures of opinions." I. Taylor. "Made up of incongruous parts."Macaulay.Incongruous denotes that kind of absence of harmony or suitablenessof which the taste and experience of men takes cognizance. C. J.Smith.Incongruous numbers (Arith.), two numbers, which, with respect to athird, are such that their difference can not be divided by itwithout a remainder, the two numbers being said to be incongruouswith respect to the third; as, twenty-five are incongruous withrespect to four.
inconnected: Not connected; disconnected. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
inconnection: Disconnection.
inconnexedly: Not connectedly; without connection. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
inconscionable: Unconscionable. [Obs.] Spenser.
inconscious: Unconscious. [Obs.]
inconsecutiveness: The state or quality of not being consecutive. J. H. Newman.
inconsequence: The quality or state of being inconsequent; want of just orlogical inference or argument; inconclusiveness. Bp. Stillingfleet.Strange, that you should not see the inconsequence of your ownreasoning! Bp. Hurd.
inconsequent: Not following from the premises; not regularly inferred;invalid; not characterized by logical method; illogical; arbitrary;inconsistent; of no consequence.Loose and inconsequent conjectures. Sir T. Browne.
inconsequential: Not regularly following from the premises; hence, irrelevant;unimportant; of no consequence. Chesterfield.-- In*con`se*quen"tial*ly, adv.
inconsequentiality: The state of being inconsequential.
inconsequentness: Inconsequence.
inconsiderable: Not considerable; unworthy of consideration or notice;unimportant; small; trivial; as, an inconsiderable distance; aninconsiderable quantity, degree, value, or sum. "The baser scum andinconsiderable dregs of Rome." Stepney.-- In`con*sid"er*a*ble*ness, n.-- In`con*sid"er*a*bly, adv.
inconsideracy: Inconsiderateness; thoughtlessness. [Obs.] Chesterfield.
inconsiderately: In an inconsiderate manner.
inconsiderateness: The quality or state of being inconsiderate. Tillotson.
inconsideration: Want of due consideration; inattention to consequences;inconsiderateness.Blindness of mind, inconsideration, precipitation. Jer. Taylor.Not gross, willful, deliberate, crimes; but rather the effects ofinconsideration. Sharp.
inconsistence: Inconsistency.
inconsistently: In an inconsistent manner.
inconsistentness: Inconsistency. [R.]
inconsisting: Inconsistent. [Obs.]
inconsolable: Not consolable; incapable of being consoled; grieved beyondsusceptibility of comfort; disconsolate. Dryden.With inconsolable distress she griev'd, And from her cheek the roseof beauty fied. Falconer.-- In`con*sol"a*ble*ness, n.-- In`con*sol"a*bly, adv.
inconsonant: Not consonant or agreeing; inconsistent; discordant.-- In*con"so*nant*ly, adv.
inconspicuous: Not conspicuous or noticeable; hardly discernible.-- In`con*spic"u*ous*ly, adv.-- In`con*spic"u*ous*ness, n. Boyle.
inconstance: Inconstancy. Chaucer.
inconstancy: The quality or state of being inconstant; want of constancy;mutability; fickleness; variableness.For unto knight there was no greater shame, Than lightness andinconstancie in love. Spenser.
inconstant: Not constant; not stable or uniform; subject to change ofcharacter, appearance, opinion, inclination, or purpose, etc.; notfirm; unsteady; fickle; changeable; variable; -- said of persons orthings; as, inconstant in love or friendship. "The inconstant moon."Shak.While we, inquiring phantoms of a day, Inconstant as the shadows wesurvey! Boyse.
inconstantly: In an inconstant manner.
inconsumable: Not consumable; incapable of being consumed, wasted, or spent.Paley.-- In`con*sum"a*bly, adv.
inconsummate: Not consummated; not finished; incomplete. Sir M. Hale.-- In`con*sum"mate*ness, n.
inconsumptible: Inconsumable. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
incontaminate: Not contaminated; pure. Moore.-- In`con*tam"i*nate*ness, n.
incontentation: Discontent. [Obs.] Goodwin.
incontestability: The quality or state of being incontestable.
incontestable: Not contestable; not to be disputed; that cannot be called inquestion or controverted; incontrovertible; indisputable; as,incontestable evidence, truth, or facts. Locke.
incontested: Not contested. Addison.
incontiguous: Not contiguous; not adjoining or in contact; separate. Boyle.-- In`con*tig"u*ous*ly, adv.
incontinent: Unable to restrain natural evacuations.
incontracted: Uncontracted. [Obs.] Blackwall.
incontrollable: Not controllable; uncontrollable.-- In`con*trol"la*bly, adv. South.
incontrovertibility: The state or condition of being incontrovertible.
incontrovertible: Not controvertible; too clear or certain to admit of dispute;indisputable. Sir T. Browne.-- In*con`tro*ver"ti*ble*ness, n.-- In*con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.
inconvenience: To put to inconvenience; to incommode; as, to inconvenience aneighbor.
inconveniency: Inconvenience.
inconveniently: In an inconvenient manner; incommodiously; unsuitably;unseasonably.
inconversable: Incommunicative; unsocial; reserved. [Obs.]
inconversant: Not conversant; not acquainted; not versed; unfamiliar.
inconverted: Not turned or changed about. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
inconvertibility: The quality or state of being inconvertible; not capable ofbeing exchanged for, or converted into, something else; as, theinconvertibility of an irredeemable currency, or of lead, into gold.
inconvertible: Not convertible; not capable of being transmuted, changed into,or exchanged for, something else; as, one metal is inconvertible intoanother; bank notes are sometimes inconvertible into specie. Walsh.
inconvertibleness: Inconvertibility.
inconvertibly: In an inconvertible manner.
inconvincible: Not convincible; incapable of being convinced.None are so inconvincible as your half-witted people. Gov. of theTongue.
inconvincibly: In a manner not admitting of being convinced.
incony: Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate. [Obs.]Most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! Shak.
incoronate: Crowned. [R.] Longfellow.
incorporal: Immaterial; incorporeal; spiritual. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
incorporality: Incorporeality. [Obs.] Bailey.
incorporally: Incorporeally. [Obs.]
incorporate: Corporate; incorporated; made one body, or united in one body;associated; mixed together; combined; embodied.As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate.Shak.A fifteenth part of silver incorporate with gold. Bacon.
incorporated: United in one body; formed into a corporation; made a legalentity.
incorporative: Incorporating or tending to incorporate; as, the incorporativelanguages (as of the Basques, North American Indians, etc. ) whichrun a whole phrase into one word.History demonstrates that incorporative unions are solid andpermanent; but that a federal union is weak. W. Belsham.
incorporator: One of a number of persons who gets a company incorporated; oneof the original members of a corporation.
incorporeal: Existing only in contemplation of law; not capable of actualvisible seizin or possession; not being an object of sense;intangible; -- opposed to corporeal. Incorporeal hereditament. Seeunder Hereditament.
incorporealism: Existence without a body or material form; immateriality.Cudworth.
incorporealist: One who believes in incorporealism. Cudworth.
incorporeality: The state or quality of being incorporeal or bodiless;immateriality; incorporealism. G. Eliot.
incorporeally: In an incorporeal manner. Bacon.
incorporeity: The quality of being incorporeal; immateriality. Berkeley.
incorpse: To incorporate. [R.] Shak.
incorrection: Want of correction, restraint, or discipline. [Obs.] Arnway.
incorrectly: Not correctly; inaccurately; not exactly; as, a writingincorrectly copied; testimony incorrectly stated.
incorrectness: The quality of being incorrect; want of conformity to truth orto a standard; inaccuracy; inexactness; as incorrectness may indefect or in redundance.
incorresponding: Not corresponding; disagreeing. [R.] Coleridge.
incorrigibility: The state or quality of being incorrigible.The ingratitude, the incorrigibility, the strange perverseness . . .of mankind. Barrow.
incorrigible: Not corrigible; incapable of being corrected or amended; badbeyond correction; irreclaimable; as, incorrigible error."Incorrigible fools." Dryden.
incorrigibleness: Incorrigibility. Dr. H. More.
incorrigibly: In an incorrigible manner.
incorrodible: Incapable of being corroded, consumed, or eaten away.
incorrupted: Uncorrupted. [Obs.]Breathed into their incorrupted breasts. Sir J. Davies.
incorruptibility: The quality of being incorruptible; incapability of corruption.Holland.
incorruptible: One of a religious sect which arose in Alexandria, in the reignof the Emperor Justinian, and which believed that the body of Christwas incorruptible, and that he suffered hunger, thirst, pain, only inappearance.
incorruptibleness: The quality or state of being incorruptible.  Boyle.
incorruptibly: In an incorruptible manner.
incorruption: The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible;absence of, or exemption from, corruption.It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. 1 Cor. xv.42.The same preservation, or, rather, incorruption, we have observed inthe flesh of turkeys, capons, etc. Sir T. Browne.
incorruptive: Incorruptible; not liable to decay. Akenside.
incorruptly: Without corruption.To demean themselves incorruptly. Milton.
incrassate: To make thick or thicker; to thicken; especially, in pharmacy,to thicken (a liquid) by the mixture of another substance, or byevaporating the thinner parts.Acids dissolve or attenuate; alkalies precipitate or incrassate. SirI. Newton.Liquors which time hath incrassated into jellies. Sir T. Browne.
incrassative: Having the quality of thickening; tending to thicken. Harvey.
increasable: Capable of being increased. Sherwood.-- In*creas"a*ble*ness, n.An indefinite increasableness of some of our ideas. Bp. Law.
increase: To become more nearly full; to show more of the surface; towax; as, the moon increases. Increasing function (Math.), a functionwhose value increases when that of the variable increases, anddecreases when the latter is diminished.
increaseful: Full of increase; abundant in produce. "Increaseful crops."[R.] Shak.
increasement: Increase. [R.] Bacon.
increaser: One who, or that, increases.
increasingly: More and more.
increate: To create within. [R.]
incredible: Not credible; surpassing belief; too extraordinary andimprobable to admit of belief; unlikely; marvelous; fabulous.Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God shouldraise the dead Acts xxvi. 8.
incredibleness: Incredibility.
incredibly: In an incredible manner.
incredited: Uncredited. [Obs.]
incredulity: The state or quality of being iOf every species of incredulity, religious unbelief is the mostirrational. Buckminster.
incredulously: In an incredulous manner; with incredulity.
incredulousness: Incredulity.
incremable: Incapable of being burnt; incombustibe. Sir T. Browne.
incremate: To consume or reduce to ashes by burning, as a dead body; tocremate.
incremation: Burning; esp., the act of burning a dead body; cremation.
increment: The increase of a variable quantity or fraction from itspresent value to its next ascending value; the finite quantity,generally variable, by which a variable quantity is increased.
incremental: Pertaining to, or resulting from, the process of growth; as,the incremental lines in the dentine of teeth.
increpate: To chide; to rebuke; to reprove. [Obs.]
increpation: A chiding; rebuke; reproof. [Obs.] Hammond.
increscent: Increasing; on the increase; -- said of the moon represented asthe new moon, with the points turned toward the dexter side.
increst: To adorn with a crest. [R.] Drummond.
incriminate: To accuse; to charge with a crime or fault; to criminate.
incrimination: The act of incriminating; crimination.
incriminatory: Of or pertaining to crimination; tending to incriminate;criminatory.
incroyable: A French fop or dandy of the time of the Directory; hence, anyfop.
incruental: Unbloody; not attended with blood; as, an incruental sacrifice.[Obs.] Brevint.
incrust: To inlay into, as a piece of carving or other ornamentalobject.
incrustate: Incrusted. Bacon.
incrustation: A covering or inlaying of marble, mosaic, etc., attached to themasonry by cramp irons or cement.
incrustment: Incrustation. [R.]
incrystallizable: Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals.
incubate: To sit, as on eggs for hatching; to brood; to brood upon, orkeep warm, as eggs, for the purpose of hatching.
incubation: The development of a disease from its causes, or its period ofincubation. (See below.)
incubative: Of or pertaining to incubation, or to the period of incubation.
incubator: That which incubates, especially, an apparatus by means ofwhich eggs are hatched by artificial heat.
incubatory: Serving for incubation.
incube: To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly. [Obs.]Milton.
incubiture: Incubation. [Obs.] J. Ellis.
incubous: Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each onecovers the base of the leaf next above it, as in hepatic mosses ofthe genus Frullania. See Succubous.
incubus: The nightmare. See Nightmare.Such as are troubled with incubus, or witch-ridden, as we call it.Burton.
inculcate: To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; tourge on the mind; as, Christ inculcates on his followers humility.The most obvious and necessary duties of life they have not yet hadauthority enough to enforce and inculcate upon men's minds. S.Clarke.
inculcation: A teaching and impressing by frequent repetitions. Bp. Hall.
inculcator: One who inculcates. Boyle.
inculk: To inculcate. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
inculp: To inculpate. [Obs.] Shelton.
inculpable: Faultless; blameless; innocent. South.An innocent and incupable piece of ignorance. Killingbeck.
inculpableness: Blamelessness; faultlessness.
inculpably: Blamelessly. South.
inculpate: To blame; to impute guilt to; to accuse; to involve orimplicate in guilt.That risk could only exculpate her and not inculpate them -- theprobabilities protected them so perfectly. H. James.
inculpation: Blame; censure; crimination. Jefferson.
inculpatory: Imputing blame; criminatory; compromising; implicating.
incult: Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized.Germany then, says Tacitus, was incult and horrid, now full ofmagnificent cities. Burton.His style is diffuse and incult. M. W. Shelley.
incultivated: Uncultivated. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
incultivation: Want of cultivation. [Obs.] Berington.
inculture: Want or neglect of cultivation or culture. [Obs.] Feltham.
incumbent: Leaning or resting; -- said of anthers when lying on the innerside of the filament, or of cotyledons when the radicle lies againstthe back of one of them. Gray.
incumbently: In an incumbent manner; so as to be incumbent.
incumber: See Encumber.
incumbition: Incubation. [R.] Sterne.
incumbrance: A burden or charge upon property; a claim or lien upon anestate, which may diminish its value.
incumbrancer: One who holds Kent.
incumbrous: Cumbersome; troublesome. [Written also encombrous.] [Obs.]Chaucer.
incunabulum: A work of art or of human industry, of an early epoch;especially, a book printed before A. D. 1500.
incur: To pass; to enter. [Obs.]Light is discerned by itself because by itself it incurs into theeye. South.
incurability: The state of being uncurable; irremediableness. Harvey.
incurable: A person diseased beyond cure.
incurableness: The state of being incurable; incurability. Boyle.
incurably: In a manner that renders cure impracticable or impossible;irremediably. "Incurably diseased." Bp. Hall. "Incurably wicked."Blair.
incuriosity: Want of curiosity or interest; inattentiveness; indifference.Sir H. Wotton.
incurious: Not curious or inquisitive; without care for or interest in;inattentive; careless; negligent; heedless.Carelessnesses and incurious deportments toward their children. Jer.Taylor.
incuriously: In an curious manner.
incuriousness: Unconcernedness; incuriosity.Sordid incuriousness and slovenly neglect. Bp. Hall.
incurrence: The act of incurring, bringing on, or subjecting one's self to(something troublesome or burdensome); as, the incurrence of guilt,debt, responsibility, etc.
incurrent: Characterized by a current which flows inward; as, theincurrent orifice of lamellibranch Mollusca.
incursive: Making an incursion; invasive; aggressive; hostile.
incurtain: To curtain. [Obs.]
incurvate: Curved; bent; crooked. Derham.
incurve: To bend; to curve; to make crooked.
incurved: Bending gradually toward the axis or center, as branches orpetals.
incurvity: A state of being bent or curved; incurvation; a bendinginwards. Sir T. Browne.
incus: One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvilbone. See Ear.
incuse: Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving. "Irregularincuse square." Dr. W. Smith.
incute: To strike or stamp in. [Obs.] Becon.
incyst: See Encyst.
incysted: See Encysted.
ind: India. [Poetical] Shak. Milton.
indagate: To seek or search out. [Obs.]
indagation: Search; inquiry; investigation. [Obs.]
indagative: Searching; exploring; investigating. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
indagator: A searcher; an explorer; an investigator. [Obs.]Searched into by such skillful indagators of nature. Boyle.
indamage: See Endamage. [R.]
indamaged: Not damaged. [Obs.] Milton.
indart: To pierce, as with a dart.
indazol: A nitrogenous compound, C7H6N2, analogous to indol, andproduced from a diazo derivative or cinnamic acid.
inde: Azure-colored; of a bright blue color. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
indear: See Endear.
indebt: To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly usedin the participle indebted.Thy fortune hath indebted thee to none. Daniel.
indebtment: Indebtedness. [R.] Bp. Hall.
indecence: See Indecency. [Obs.] "An indecence of barbarity." Bp. Burnet.
indecent: Not decent; unfit to be seen or heard; offensive to modesty anddelicacy; as, indecent language. Cowper.
indecently: In an indecent manner.
indeciduate: Having no decidua; nondeciduate.
indeciduous: Not deciduous or falling, as the leaves of trees in autumn;lasting; evergreen; persistent; permanent; perennial.The indeciduous and unshaven locks of Apollo. Sir T. Browne.
indecimable: Not decimable, or liable to be decimated; not liable to thepayment of tithes. Cowell.
indecipherable: Not decipherable; incapable of being deciphered, explained, orsolved.-- In`de*ci"pher*a*bly, adv.
indecision: Want of decision; want of settled purpose, or of firmness;indetermination; wavering of mind; irresolution; vacillation;hesitation.The term indecision . . . implies an idea very nicely different fromirresolution; yet it has a tendency to produce it. Shenstone.Indecision . . . is the natural accomplice of violence. Burke.
indecisively: Without decision.
indecisiveness: The state of being indecisive; unsettled state.
indeclinable: Not declinable; not varied by inflective terminations; as,nihil (nothing), in Latin, is an indeclinable noun.-- n.
indeclinably: Without variation of termination.
indecomposable: Not decomposable; incapable or difficult of decomposition; notresolvable into its constituents or elements.
indecomposableness: Incapableness of decomposition; stability; permanence;durability.
indecorous: Not decorous; violating good manners; contrary to good breedingor etiquette; unbecoming; improper; out of place; as, indecorousconduct.It was useless and indecorous to attempt anything more by merestruggle. Burke.
indecorously: In an indecorous manner.
indecorousness: The quality of being indecorous; want of decorum.
indeed: In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in avariety of sense. Esp.
indefatigability: The state of being indefatigable.
indefatigable: Incapable of being fatigued; not readily exhausted; unremittingin labor or effort; untiring; unwearying; not yielding to fatigue;as, indefatigable exertions, perseverance, application. "A constant,indefatigable attendance." South.Upborne with indefatigable wings. Milton.
indefatigableness: Indefatigable quality; unweariedness; persistency. Parnell.
indefatigably: Without weariness; without yielding to fatigue; persistently.Dryden.
indefatigation: Indefatigableness; unweariedness. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
indefeasibility: The quality of being undefeasible.
indefeasible: Not to be defeated; not defeasible; incapable of being annulledor made void; as, an indefeasible or title.That the king had a divine and an indefeasible right to the regalpower. Macaulay.
indefectibility: The quality of being indefectible. Barrow.
indefectible: Not defectible; unfailing; not liable to defect, failure, ordecay.An indefectible treasure in the heavens. Barrow.A state of indefectible virtue and happiness. S. Clarke.
indefective: Not defective; perfect; complete. "Absolute, indefectiveobedience." South.
indefeisible: Indefeasible. [Obs.]
indefensibility: The quality or state of not being defensible. Walsh.
indefensible: Not defensible; not capable of being defended, maintained,vindicated, or justified; unjustifiable; untenable; as, anindefensible fortress, position, cause, etc.Men find that something can be said in favor of what, on the veryproposal, they thought utterly indefensible. Burke.
indefensibly: In an indefensible manner.
indefensive: Defenseless. [Obs.]The sword awes the indefensive villager. Sir T. Herbert.
indeficiency: The state or quality of not being deficient. [Obs.] Strype.
indeficient: Not deficient; full. [Obs.]Brighter than the sun, and indeficient as the light of heaven. Jer.Taylor.
indefinable: Incapable of being defined or described; inexplicable. Bp.Reynolds.
indefinably: In an indefinable manner.
indefinite: Too numerous or variable to make a particular enumerationimportant; -- said of the parts of a flower, and the like. Also,indeterminate. Indefinite article (Gram.), the word a or an, usedwith nouns to denote any one of a common or general class.-- Indefinite inflorescence. (Bot.) See Indeterminate inflorescence,under Indeterminate.-- Indefinite proposition (Logic), a statement whose subject is acommon term, with nothing to indicate distribution ornondistribution; as, Man is mortal.-- Indefinite term (Logic), a negative term; as, the not-good.
indefinitely: In an indefinite manner or degree; without any settledlimitation; vaguely; not with certainty or exactness; as, to use aword indefinitely.If the world be indefinitely extended, that is, so far as no humanintellect can fancy any bound of it. Ray.
indefiniteness: The quality of being indefinite.
indefinitude: Indefiniteness; vagueness; also, number or quantity not limitedby our understanding, though yet finite. [Obs.] Sir M . Hale.
indehiscence: The property or state of being indehiscent.
indehiscent: Remaining closed at maturity, or not opening along regularlines, as the acorn, or a cocoanut.
indelectable: Not delectable; unpleasant; disagreeable. [R.] Richardson.
indeliberate: Done without deliberation; unpremeditated. [Obs.] --In`de*lib"er*ate*ly, adv. [Obs.]
indeliberated: Indeliberate. [Obs.]
indelibility: The quality of being indelible. Bp. Horsley.
indelicacy: The quality of being indelicate; want of delicacy, or of a nicesense of, or regard for, purity, propriety, or refinement in manners,language, etc.; rudeness; coarseness; also, that which is offensiveto refined taste or purity of mind.The indelicacy of English comedy. Blair.Your papers would be chargeable with worse than indelicacy; theywould be immoral. Addison.
indelicate: Not delicate; wanting delicacy; offensive to good manners, orto purity of mind; coarse; rude; as, an indelicate word orsuggestion; indelicate behavior. Macaulay.-- In*del"i*cate*ly, adv.
indemonstrability: The quality of being indemonstrable.
indemonstrable: Incapable of being demonstrated.-- In`de*mon"stra*ble*ness, n.
indenization: The act of naturalizing; endenization. [R.] Evelyn.
indenize: To naturalize. [R.]
indenizen: To invest with the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [R.]Words indenizened, and commonly used as English. B. Jonson.
indent: To bind out by indenture or contract; to indenture; toapprentice; as, to indent a young man to a shoemaker; to indent aservant.
indented: Notched like the part of a saw consisting of the teeth;serrated; as, an indented border or ordinary.
indentedly: With indentations.
indenting: Indentation; an impression like that made by a tooth.
indention: Same as Indentation, 4.
indentment: Indenture. [Obs.]
indenture: A mutual agreement in writing between two or more parties,whereof each party has usually a counterpart or duplicate; sometimesin the pl., a short form for indentures of apprenticeship, thecontract by which a youth is bound apprentice to a master.The law is the best expositor of the gospel; they are like a pair ofindentures
independence day: In the United States, a holiday, the 4th of July, commemoratingthe adoption of the Declaration of Independence on that day in 1776.
independency: Doctrine and polity of the Independents.
independent: Belonging or pertaining to, or holding to the doctrines ormethods of, the Independents.
independentism: Independency; the church system of Independents. Bp. Gauden.
independently: In an independent manner; without control.
indeposable: Incapable of being deposed. [R.]Princes indeposable by the pope. Bp. Stillingfleet.
indepravate: Undepraved. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
indeprecable: Incapable or undeserving of being deprecated. Cockeram.
indeprehensible: Incapable of being found out. Bp. Morton.
indeprivable: Incapable of being deprived, or of being taken away.
indescribable: Incapable of being described.-- In`de*scrib"a*bly, adv.
indescriptive: Not descriptive.
indesert: Ill desert. [R.] Addison.
indesinent: Not ceasing; perpetual. [Obs.] Baxter.-- In*des"i*nent*ly, adv. [Obs.] Ray.
indesirable: Undesirable.
indestructibility: The quality of being indestructible.
indestructible: Not destructible; incapable of decomposition or of beingdestroyed.-- In`de*struc"ti*ble*ness, n.-- In`de*struc"ti*bly, adv.
indeterminable: Not determinable; impossible to be determined; not to bedefinitely known, ascertained, defined, or limited.-- In`de*ter"mi*na*bly, adv.
indeterminate: Not determinate; not certain or fixed; indefinite; not precise;as, an indeterminate number of years. Paley. Indeterminate analysis(Math.), that branch of analysis which has for its object thesolution of indeterminate problems.-- Indeterminate coefficients (Math.), coefficients arbitrarilyassumed for convenience of calculation, or to facilitate someartifice of analysis. Their values are subsequently determined.-- Indeterminate equation (Math.), an equation in which the unknownquantities admit of an infinite number of values, or sets of values.A group of equations is indeterminate when it contains more unknownquantities than there are equations.-- Indeterminate inflorescence (Bot.), a mode of inflorescence inwhich the flowers all arise from axillary buds, the terminal budgoing on to grow and sometimes continuing the stem indefinitely; --called also acropetal, botryose, centripetal, and indefiniteinflorescence. Gray.-- Indeterminate problem (Math.), a problem which admits of aninfinite number of solutions, or one in which there are fewer imposedconditions than there are unknown or required results.-- Indeterminate quantity (Math.), a quantity which has no fixedvalue, but which may be varied in accordance with any proposedcondition.-- Indeterminate series (Math.), a series whose terms proceed by thepowers of an indeterminate quantity, sometimes also withindeterminate exponents, or indeterminate coefficients.-- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ly adv.-- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ness, n.
indetermined: Undetermined.
indevirginate: Not devirginate. [Obs.] Chapman.
indevote: Not devoted. [Obs.] Bentley. Clarendon.
indevotion: Want of devotion; impiety; irreligion. "An age of indevotion."Jer. Taylor.
indevout: Not devout.-- In*de*vout"ly, adv.
indew: To indue. [Obs.] Spenser.
index: The second digit, that next pollex, in the manus, or hand; theforefinger; index finger.
indexer: One who makes an index.
indexical: Of, pertaining to, or like, an index; having the form of anindex.
indexically: In the manner of an index.
indexterity: Want of dexterity or readiness, especially in the use of thehands; clumsiness; awkwardness. Harvey.
india: A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither andFarther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan.India ink, a nearly black pigment brought chiefly from China, usedfor water colors. It is in rolls, or in square, and consists oflampblack or ivory black and animal glue. Called also China ink. Thetrue India ink is sepia. See Sepia.-- India matting, floor matting made in China, India, etc., fromgrass and reeds; -- also called Canton, or China, matting.-- India paper, a variety of Chinese paper, of smooth but not glossysurface, used for printing from engravings, woodcuts, etc.-- India proof (Engraving), a proof impression from an engravedplate, taken on India paper.-- India rubber. See Caoutchouc.-- India-rubber tree (Bot.), any tree yielding caoutchouc, butespecially the East Indian Ficus elastica, often cultivated for itslarge, shining, elliptical leaves.
india rubber: . See Caoutchouc.
india steel: Same as Wootz.
indiadem: To place or set in a diadem, as a gem or gems.
indiaman: A large vessel in the India trade. Macaulay.
indianeer: An Indiaman.
indical: Indexical. [R.] Fuller.
indican: A glucoside obtained from woad (indigo plant) and other plants,as a yellow or light brown sirup. It has a nauseous bitter taste, adecomposes or drying. By the action of acids, ferments, etc., itbreaks down into sugar and indigo. It is the source of naturalindigo.
indicant: Serving to point out, as a remedy; indicating.
indicate: To show or manifest by symptoms; to point to as the properremedies; as, great prostration of strength indicates the use ofstimulants.
indicated: Shown; denoted; registered; measured. Indicated power. SeeIndicated horse power, under Horse power.
indication: Any symptom or occurrence in a disease, which serves to directto suitable remedies.
indicative: Suggestive; representing the whole by a part, as a fleet by aship, a forest by a tree, etc. Indicative mood (Gram.), that mood orform of the verb which indicates, that is, which simply affirms ordenies or inquires; as, he writes; he is not writing; has the mailarrived
indicatively: In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify.
indicator: A pressure gauge; a water gauge, as for a steam boiler; anapparatus or instrument for showing the working of a machine ormoving part; as:(a) (Steam Engine) An instrument which draws a diagram showing thevarying pressure in the cylinder of an engine or pump at every pointof the stroke. It consists of a small cylinder communicating with theengine cylinder and fitted with a piston which the varying pressuredrives upward more or less against the resistance of a spring. Alever imparts motion to a pencil which traces the diagram on a cardwrapped around a vertical drum which is turned back and forth by astring connected with the piston rod of the engine. See Indicatorcard (below).(b) A telltale connected with a hoisting machine, to show, at thesurface, the position of the cage in the shaft of a mine, etc.
indicatory: Serving to show or make known; showing; indicative; signifying;implying.
indicatrix: A certain conic section supposed to be drawn in the tangentplane to any surface, and used to determine the accidents ofcurvature of the surface at the point of contact. The curve issimilar to the intersection of the surface with a parallel to thetangent plane and indefinitely near it. It is an ellipse when thecurvature is synclastic, and an hyperbola when the curvature isanticlastic.
indicavit: A writ of prohibition against proceeding in the spiritual courtin certain cases, when the suit belongs to the common-law courts.Wharton (Law Dict. ).
indice: Index; indication. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
indices: See Index.
indicia: Discriminating marks; signs; tokens; indications; appearances.Burrill.
indicible: Unspeakable. [Obs.]
indicolite: A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue color.
indict: To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding orpresentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, toindict a man for arson. It is the peculiar province of a grand juryto indict, as it is of a house of representatives to impeach.
indictable: Capable of being, or liable to be, indicted; subject toindictment; as, an indictable offender or offense.
indictee: A person indicted.
indicter: One who indicts.
indictive: Proclaimed; declared; public. Kennet.
indictment: The formal statement of an offense, as framed by theprosecuting authority of the State, and found by the grand jury.
indictor: One who indicts. Bacon.
indies: A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies.Our king has all the Indies in his arms. Shak.
indifferency: Absence of interest in, or influence from, anything;unconcernedness; equilibrium; indifferentism; indifference.Gladstone.To give ourselves to a detestable indifferency or neutrality in thiscause. Fuller.Moral liberty . . . does not, after all, consist in a power ofindifferency, or in a power of choosing without regard to motives.Hazlitt.
indifferent: Free from bias or prejudice; impartial; unbiased;disinterested.In choice of committees for ripening business for the counsel, it isbetter indifferent persons than to make an indifferency by putting inthose that are strong on both sides. Bacon.Indifferent tissue (Anat.), the primitive, embryonic,undifferentiated tissue, before conversion into connective, muscular,nervous, or other definite tissue.
indifferentism: Same as Identism.
indifferentist: One governed by indifferentism.
indifferently: In an indifferent manner; without distinction or preference;impartially; without concern, wish, affection, or aversion;tolerably; passably.That they may truly and indifferently minister justice, to thepunishment of wickedness and vice, and to the maintenance of thy truereligion, and virtue. Book of Com. Prayer [Eng. Ed. ]Set honor in one eye and death i' the other, And I will look on bothindifferently. Shak.I hope it may indifferently entertain your lordship at an unbendinghour. Rowe.
indifulvin: A reddish resinous substance, obtained from indican.
indifuscin: A brown amorphous powder, obtained from indican.
indigeen: Same as Indigene. Darwin.
indigence: The condition of being indigent; want of estate, or means ofcomfortable subsistence; penury; poverty; as, helpless, indigence.Cowper.
indigency: Indigence.New indigencies founded upon new desires. South.
indigene: One born in a country; an aboriginal animal or plant; anautochthon. Evelyn. Tylor.
indigently: In an indigent manner.
indigest: Crude; unformed; unorganized; undigested. [Obs.] "A chaos rudeand indigest." W. Browne. "Monsters and things indigest." Shak.
indigestedness: The state or quality of being undigested; crudeness. Bp.Burnet.
indigestibility: The state or quality of being indigestible; indigestibleness.
indigestion: Lack of proper digestive action; a failure of the normalchanges which food should undergo in the alimentary canal; dyspepsia;incomplete or difficult digestion.
indigitate: To communicative ideas by the fingers; to show or compute bythe fingers. [Obs.]
indigitation: The act of pointing out as with the finger; indication. [Obs.]Dr. H. More.
indiglucin: The variety of sugar (glucose) obtained from the glucosideindican. It is unfermentable, but reduces Fehling's solution.
indign: Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading. Chaucer.Counts it scorn to draw Comfort indign from any meaner thing. Trench.
indignant: Affected with indignation; wrathful; passionate; irate; feelingwrath, as when a person is exasperated by unworthy or unjusttreatment, by a mean action, or by a degrading accusation.He strides indignant, and with haughty cries To single fight thefairy prince defies. Tickell.
indignantly: In an indignant manner.
indignify: To treat disdainfully or with indignity; to contemn. [Obs.]Spenser.
indignity: Any action toward another which manifests contempt for him; anoffense against personal dignity; unmerited contemptuous treatment;contumely; incivility or injury, accompanied with insult.How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities youlaid upon me Shak.A person of so great place and worth constrained to endure so foulindignities. Hooker.
indignly: Unworthily. [Obs.]
indigo: A blue dyestuff obtained from several plants belonging to verydifferent genera and orders; as, the woad, Isatis tinctoria,Indigofera tinctoria, I. Anil, Nereum tinctorium, etc. It is a darkblue earthy substance, tasteless and odorless, with a copper-violetluster when rubbed. Indigo does not exist in the plants as such, butis obtained by decomposition of the glycoside indican.
indigofera: A genus of leguminous plants having many species, mostly intropical countries, several of them yielding indigo, esp. Indigoferatinctoria, and I. Anil.
indigogen: See Indigo white, under Indigo.
indigometer: An instrument for ascertaining the strength of an indigosolution, as in volumetric analysis. Ure.
indigometry: The art or method of determining the coloring power of indigo.
indigotic: Pertaining to, or derived from, indigo; as, indigotic acid,which is also called anilic or nitrosalicylic acid.
indigotin: See Indigo blue, under Indigo.
indigrubin: Same as Urrhodin.
indihumin: A brown amorphous substance resembling humin, and obtained fromindican.
indilatory: Not dilatory. [Obs.]
indiligence: Want of diligence. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
indiligent: Not diligent; idle; slothful. [Obs.] Feltham.-- In*dil"i*gent*ly, adv. [Obs.]
indiminishable: Incapable of being diminished. [R.] Milton.
indin: A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resemblingindigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol.
indirect: Not reaching the end aimed at by the most plain and directmethod; as, an indirect proof, demonstration, etc. Indirect claims,claims for remote or consequential damage. Such claims were presentedto and thrown out by the commissioners who arbitrated the damageinflicted on the United States by the Confederate States cruisersbuilt and supplied by Great Britain.-- Indirect demonstration, a mode of demonstration in which proof isgiven by showing that any other supposition involves an absurdity(reductio ad absurdum), or an impossibility; thus, one quantity maybe proved equal to another by showing that it can be neither greaternor less.-- Indirect discourse. (Gram.) See Direct discourse, under Direct.-- Indirect evidence, evidence or testimony which is circumstantialor inferential, but without witness; -- opposed to direct evidence.-- Indirect tax, a tax, such as customs, excises, etc., exacteddirectly from the merchant, but paid indirectly by the consumer inthe higher price demanded for the articles of merchandise.
indirected: Not directed; aimless. [Obs.]
indirection: Oblique course or means; dishonest practices; indirectness. "Byindirections find directions out." Shak.
indirectly: In an direct manner; not in a straight line or course; not inexpress terms; obliquely; not by direct means; hence, unfairly;wrongly.To tax it indirectly by taxing their expense. A. Smith.Your crown and kingdom indirectly held. Shak.
indiretin: A dark brown resinous substance obtained from indican.
indirubin: A substance isomeric with, and resembling, indigo blue, andaccompanying it as a side product, in its artificial production.
indiscernible: Not to be discerned; imperceptible; not discoverable orvisible.Secret and indiscernible ways. Jer. Taylor.-- In`dis*cern"i*ble*ness, n.-- In`dis*cern"i*bly, adv.
indisciplinable: Not disciplinable; undisciplinable. [R.]
indiscipline: Want of discipline or instruction. [R.]
indiscoverable: Not discoverable; undiscoverable. J. Conybeare.
indiscovery: Want of discovery. [Obs.]
indiscreet: Not discreet; wanting in discretion.So drunken, and so indiscreet an officer. Shak.
indiscriminate: Not discriminate; wanting discrimination; undistinguishing; notmaking any distinction; confused; promiscuous. "Blind orindiscriminate forgiveness." I. Taylor.The indiscriminate defense of right and wrong. Junius.-- In`dis*crim"i*nate*ly, adv. Cowper.
indiscriminating: Not discriminating.-- In`dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.
indiscrimination: Want of discrimination or distinction; impartiality. Jefferson.
indiscriminative: Making no distinction; not discriminating.
indiscussed: Not discussed. [Obs.] Donne.
indispensability: Indispensableness.
indispensable: Not admitting dispensation; not subject to release orexemption. [R.]The law was moral and indispensable. Bp. Burnet.
indispensableness: The state or quality of being indispensable, or absolutelynecessary. S. Clarke.
indispensably: In an indispensable manner. "Indispensably necessary." Bp.Warburton.
indispersed: Not dispersed. [R.]
indisposedness: The condition or quality of being indisposed. [R.] Bp. Hall.
indisputability: Indisputableness.
indisputable: Not disputable; incontrovertible; too evident to admit ofdispute.
indisputed: Undisputed.
indissipable: Incapable o
indissolubility: The quality or state of being indissoluble.
indissolubleness: Indissolubility. Sir M. Hale.
indissolubly: In an indissoluble manner.On they move, indissolubly firm. Milton.
indissolvable: Not dissolvable; incapable of being dissolved or separated;incapable oas, an indissolvable bond of union. Bp. Warburton.
indissolvableness: Indissolubleness.
indistancy: Want of distance o [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
indistinctible: Indistinguishable. [Obs.] T. Warton.
indistinction: Want of distinction or distinguishableness; confusion;uncertainty; indiscrimination.The indistinction of many of the same name . . . hath made somedoubt. Sir T. Browne.An indistinction of all persons, or equality of all orders, is farfrom being agreeable to the will of God. Sprat.
indistinctive: Having nothing distinctive; common.-- In`dis*tinc"tive*ness, n.
indistinctly: In an indistinct manner; not clearly; confusedly; dimly; as,certain ideas are indistinctly comprehended.In its sides it was bounded distinctly, but on its ends confusedly anindistinctly. Sir I. Newton.
indistinctness: The quality or condition of being indistinct; want ofdefiniteness; dimness; confusion; as, the indistinctness of apicture, or of comprehension; indistinctness of vision.
indistinguishable: Not distinguishable; not capable of being perceived, known, ordiscriminated as separate and distinct; hence, not capable of beingperceived or known; as, in the distance the flagship wasindisguishable; the two copies were indisguishable in form or color;the difference between them was indisguishable.
indistinguishably: In a indistinguishable manner. Sir W. Scott.
indistinguished: Indistinct. [R.] "That indistinguished mass." Sir T. Browne.
indistinguishing: Making no difference; indiscriminative; impartial; as,indistinguishing liberalities. [Obs.] Johnson.
indisturbance: Freedom from disturbance; calmness; repose; apathy;indifference.
inditch: To bury in, or cast into, a ditch. Bp. Hall.
indite: To compose; to write, as a poem.Wounded I sing, tormented I indite. Herbert.
inditement: The act of inditing. Craig.
inditer: One who indites. Smart.
indium: A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, bymeans of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence,its name. In appearance it resembles zinc, being white or lead gray,soft, malleable and easily fusible, but in its chemical relation itresembles aluminium or gallium. Symbol In. Atomic weight, 113.4.
indivertible: Not to be diverted or turned aside. [R.] Lamb.
individable: Indivisible. [R.] Shak.
individed: Undivided. [R.] Bp. Patrick.
individualistic: Of or pertaining to the individual or individualism. LondonAthenæum.
individualization: The act of individualizing; the state of being individualized;individuation.
individualize: The mark as an individual, or to distinguish from others bypeculiar properties; to invest with individuality.The peculiarities which individualize and distinguish the humor ofAddison. N. Drake.
individualizer: One who individualizes.
individuate: Undivided. [Obs.]
individuation: The act of individuating or state of being individuated;individualization. H. Spencer.
individuator: One who, or that which, individuates. Sir K. Digby.
individuity: Separate existence; individuality; oneness. Fuller.
indivinity: Want or absence of divine power or of divinity. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
indivisibility: The state or property of being indivisible or inseparable;inseparability. Locke.
indivisible: Not capable of exact division, as one quantity by another;incommensurable.
indivisibleness: The state of being indivisible; indivisibility. W. Montagu.
indivisibly: In an indivisible manner.
indivision: A state of being not divided; oneness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
indo-: A prefix signifying Indian (i. e., East Indian); of orpertaining of India.
indo-aryan: Pert. to the Indo-Aryans, or designating, or of, the Aryanlanguages of India.
indo-briton: A person born in India, of mixed Indian and British blood; ahalf-caste. Malcom.
indo-chinese: Of or pertaining to Indo-China (i. e., Farther India, or Indiabeyond the Ganges).
indo-do-chinese languages: A family of languages, mostly of the isolating type, althoughsome are agglutinative, spoken in the great area extending fromnorthern India in the west to Formosa in the east and from CentralAsia in the north to the Malay Peninsula in the south.
indo-english: Of or relating to the English who are born or reside in India;Anglo-Indian.
indo-european: Aryan; -- applied to the languages of India and Europe whichare derived from the prehistoric Aryan language; also, pertaining tothe people or nations who speak these languages; as, the Indo-European or Aryan family.The common origin of the Indo-European nations. Tylor.
indoaniline: Any one of a series of artificial blue dyes, in appearanceresembling indigo, for which they are often used as substitutes.
indocibility: The state of being indocible; indocibleness; indocility.
indocible: Incapable of being taught, or not easily instructed; dull inintellect; intractable; unteachable; indocile. Bp. Hall.-- In*doc"i*ble*ness, n.
indocile: Not teachable; indisposed to be taught, trained, ordisciplined; not easily instructed or governed; dull; intractable.
indocility: The quality or state of being indocile; dullness of intellect;unteachableness; intractableness.The stiffness and indocility of the Pharisees. W. Montagu.
indoctrinate: To instruct in the rudiments or principles of learning, or of abranch of learning; to imbue with learning; to instruct in, or imbuewith, principles or doctrines; to teach; -- often followed by in.A master that . . . took much delight in indoctrinating his young,unexperienced favorite. Clarendon.
indoctrination: The act of indoctrinating, or the condition of beingindoctrinated; instruction in the rudiments and principles of anyscience or system of belief; information. Sir T. Browne.
indogen: A complex, nitrogenous radical, C8H5NO, regarded as theessential nucleus of indigo.
indogenide: Any one of the derivatives of indogen, which contain that groupas a nucleus.
indoin: A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially fromcertain isatogen compounds.
indol: A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blueindigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction.It is also formed from albuminous matter, together with skatol, byputrefaction, and by fusion with caustic potash, and is present inhuman excrement, as well as in the intestinal canal of someherbivora.
indolency: Indolence. [Obs.] Holland.
indolent: Causing little or no pain or annoyance; as, an indolent tumor.
indolently: In an indolent manner.Calm and serene you indolently sit. Addison.
indoles: Natural disposition; natural quality or abilities.
indolin: A dark resinous substance, polymeric with indol, and obtainedby the reduction of indigo white.
indomable: Indomitable. [Obs.]
indomitable: Not to be subdued; untamable; invincible; as, an indomitablewill, courage, animal.
indomite: Not tamed; untamed; savage; wild. [Obs.] J. Salkeld.
indomptable: Indomitable. [Obs.] Tooke.
indonesian: Of or pertaining to Indonesia or Indonesians.
indoor: Done or being within doors; within a house or institution;domestic; as, indoor work.
indoors: Within the house; -- usually separated, in doors.
indophenol: Any one of a series of artificial blue dyestuffs, resemblingindigo in appearance, and obtained by the action of phenol on certainnitrogenous derivatives of quinone. Simple indophenol proper has notyet been isolated.
indorsable: Capable of being indorsed; transferable; convertible.
indorsation: Indorsement. [Obs.]
indorse: To write one's name, alone or with other words, upon the backof (a paper), for the purpose of transferring it, or to secure thepayment of a
indorsed: See Addorsed.
indorsee: The person to whom a note or bill is indorsed, or assigned byindorsement.
indorsement: The person who indorses. [Written also endorser.]
indow: See Endow.
indowment: See Endowment.
indoxyl: A nitrogenous substance, C8H7NO, isomeric with oxindol,obtained as an oily liquid.
indoxylic: Of or pertaining to, or producing, indoxyl; as, indoxylic acid.
indrawn: Drawn in.
indrench: To overwhelm with water; to drench; to drown. [Obs.] Shak.
indubitable: Not dubitable or doubtful; too evident to admit of doubt;unquestionable; evident; apparently certain; as, an indubitableconclusion.-- n.
indubitableness: The state or quality of being indubitable.
indubitably: Undoubtedly; unquestionably; in a manner to remove all doubt.Oracles indubitably clear and infallibly certain. Barrow.
indubitate: Not questioned or doubtful; evident; certain. [Obs.] Bacon.
induce: To produce, or cause, by proximity without contact ortransmission, as a particular electric or magnetic condition in abody, by the approach of another body in an opposite electric ormagnetic state.
induced current: A current due to variation in the magnetic field surroundingits conductor.
inducement: Matter stated by way of explanatory preamble or introduction tothe main allegations of a pleading; a leading to.
inducer: One who, or that which, induces or incites.
inductance: Capacity for induction; the coefficient of self-induction.
inductance coil: A choking coil.
inducteous: Rendered electro-polar by induction, or brought into theopposite electrical state by the influence of inductive bodies.
inductile: Not ductile; incapable of being drawn into threads, as a metal;inelastic; tough.
inductility: The quality or state of being inductile.
induction: The act or process of reasoning from a part to a whole, fromparticulars to generals, or from the individual to the universal;also, the result or inference so reached.Induction is an inference drawn from all the particulars. Sir W.Hamilton.Induction is the process by which we conclude that what is true ofcertain individuals of a class, is true of the whole class, or thatwhat is true at certain times will be true in similar circumstancesat all times. J. S. Mill.
induction generator: A machine built as an induction motor and driven abovesynchronous speed, thus acting as an alternating-current generator; -- called also asynchronous generator. Below synchronism the machinetakes in electrical energy and acts as an induction motor; atsynchronism the power component of current becomes zero and changessign, so that above synchronism the machine (driven for this purposeby mechanical power) gives out electrical energy as a generator.
induction motor: A type of alternating-current motor comprising two woundmembers, one stationary, called the stator, and the other rotating,called the rotor, these two members corresponding to a certain extentto the field and armature of a direct-current motor.
inductional: Pertaining to, or proceeding by, induction; inductive.
inductively: By induction or inference.
inductometer: An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the degree or rateof electrical induction.
inductor: That portion of an electrical apparatus, in which is theinducing charge or current.
inductorium: An induction coil.
induement: The act of induing, or state of being indued; investment;endowment. W. Montagu.
indulge: To indulge one's self; to gratify one's tastes or desires;esp., to give one's self up (to); to practice a forbidden orquestionable act without restraint; -- followed by in, but formerly,also, by to. "Willing to indulge in easy vices." Johnson.
indulgement: Indulgence. [R.] Wood.
indulgence: Remission of the temporal punishment due to sins, after theguilt of sin has been remitted by sincere repentance; absolution fromthe censures and public penances of the church. It is a payment ofthe debt of justice to God by the application of the merits of Christand his saints to the contrite soul through the church. It istherefore believed to diminish or destroy for sins the punishment ofpurgatory.
indulgency: Indulgence. Dryden.
indulgent: Prone to indulge; yielding to the wishes, humor, or appetitesof those under one's care; compliant; not opposing or restraining;tolerant; mild; favorable; not severe; as, an indulgent parent. Shak.The indulgent censure of posterity. Waller.The feeble old, indulgent of their ease. Dryden.
indulgential: Relating to the indulgences of the Roman Catholic Church.Brevint.
indulgently: In an indulgent manner; mildly; favorably. Dryden.
indulger: One who indulges. W. Montagu.
indulgiate: To indulge. [R.] Sandys.
induline: A duty levied on all importations.
indument: Plumage; feathers.
indurance: See Endurance.
indurate: To grow hard; to harden, or become hard; as, clay indurates bydrying, and by heat.
indurated: Hardened; as, indurated clay; an indurated heart. Goldsmith.
indusial: Of, pertaining to, or containing, the petrified cases of thelarvæ of certain insects. Indusial limestone (Geol.), a fresh-waterlimestone, largely composed of the agglomerated cases of caddiceworms, or larvæ of caddice flies (Phryganea). It is found in Miocenestrata of Auvergne, France, and some other localities.
industrial: Consisting in industry; pertaining to industry, or the arts andproducts of industry; concerning those employed in labor, especiallyin manual labor, and their wages, duties, and rights.The great ideas of industrial development and economic socialamelioration. M. Arnold.
industrially: With reference to industry.
industry: Human exertion of any kind employed for the creation of value,and regarded by some as a species of capital or wealth; labor.
indutive: Covered; -- applied to seeds which have the usual integumentarycovering.
induviae: Persistent portions of a calyx or corolla; also, leaves whichdo not disarticulate from the stem, and hence remain for a long time.
induviate: Covered with induviæ, as the upper part of the trunk of a palmtree.
indwell: To dwell in; to abide within; to remain in possession.The Holy Ghost became a dove, not as a symbol, but as a constantlyindwelt form. Milman.
indweller: An inhabitant. Spenser.
indwelling: Residence within, as in the heart.The personal indwelling of the Spirit in believers. South.
inearth: To inter. [R.] Southey.
inebriant: Intoxicating.
inebriate: To become drunk. [Obs.] Bacon.
inebriation: The condition of being inebriated; intoxication; figuratively,deprivation of sense and judgment by anything that exhilarates, assuccess. Sir T. Browne.Preserve him from the inebriation of prosperity. Macaulay.
inebriety: Drunkenness; inebriation. E. Darwin.
inebrious: Intoxicated, or partially so; intoxicating. [R.] T. Brown.
inedible: Not edible; not fit for food. -- In*ed`i*bil"i*ty (#), n.
inedited: Not edited; unpublished; as, an inedited manuscript. T. Warton.
inee: An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthushispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye.
ineffability: The quality or state of being ineffable; ineffableness;unspeakableness.
ineffable: Incapable of being expresses in words; unspeakable;unutterable; indescribable; as, the ineffable joys of heaven.Contentment with our lot . . . will diffuse ineffable contenBeattie.
ineffableness: The quality or state of being ineffable or unutterable;unspeakableness.
ineffably: In a manner not to be expressed in words; unspeakably. Milton.
ineffaceable: Incapable of being effaced; indelible; ineradicable.
ineffaceably: So as not to be effaceable.
ineffectible: Ineffectual; impracticable. [R.] Bp. Hall.
ineffective: Not effective; ineffectual; futile; inefficient; useless; as,an ineffective appeal.The word of God, without the spirit, [is] a dead and ineffectiveletter. Jer. Taylor.
ineffectively: In an ineffective manner; without effect; inefficiently;ineffectually.
ineffectiveness: Quality of being ineffective.
ineffectual: Not producing the proper effect; without effect; inefficient;weak; useless; futile; unavailing; as, an ineffectual attempt; anineffectual expedient. Pope.The peony root has been much commended, . . . and yet has been bymany found ineffectual. Boyle.
ineffectuality: Ineffectualness. [R.]
ineffectually: Without effect; in vain.Hereford . . . had been besieged for abouineffectually by the Scots.Ludlow.
ineffectualness: Want of effect, or of power to produce it; inefficacy.The ineffectualness of some men's devotion. Wake.
ineffervescence: Want of effervescence. Kirwan.
ineffervescent: Not effervescing, or not susceptible of effervescence;quiescent.
ineffervescibility: The quality of being ineffervescible.
ineffervescible: Not capable or susceptible of effervescence.
inefficacious: Not efficacious; not having power to produce the effectdesired; inadequate; incompetent; inefficient; impotent. Boyle.The authority of Parliament must become inefficacious . . . torestrain the growth of disorders. Burke.
inefficaciously: without efficacy or effect.
inefficaciousness: Want of effect, or of power to produce the effect; inefficacy.
inefficacy: Want of power to produce the desired or proper effect;inefficiency; ineffectualness; futility; uselessness; fruitlessness;as, the inefficacy of medicines or means.The seeming inefficacy of censures. Bp. Hall.The inefficacy was soon proved, like that of many similar medicines.James Gregory.
inefficiency: The quality of being inefficient; want of power or energysufficient; want of power or energy sufficient for the desiredeffect; inefficacy; incapacity; as, he was discharged from hisposition for inefficiency.
inefficiently: In an inefficient manner.
inelaborate: Not elaborate; not wrought with care; unpolished; crude;unfinished.
inelastic: Not elastic.
inelasticity: Want of elasticity.
inelegant: Not elegant; deficient in beauty, polish, refinement, grave, orornament; wanting in anything which correct taste requires.What order so contrived as not to mix Tastes, not well joined,inelegant. Milton.It renders style often obscure, always embarrassed and inelegant.Blair.
inelegantly: In an inelegant manner.
ineligibility: The state or quality of being ineligible.
ineligible: Not eligible; not qualified to be chos Burke.
inelligibly: In an ineligible manner.
ineloquent: Not eloquent; not fluent, graceful, or pathetic; notpersuasive; as, ineloquent language.Nor are thy lips ungraceful, sire of men, Nor tongue ineloquent.Milton.
ineloquently: Without eloquence.
ineluctable: Not to be overcome by struggling; irresistible; inevitable. Bp.Pearson.The ineluctable conditions of matter. Hamerton.
ineludible: Incapable of being eluded or evaded; unvoidable.Most pressing reasons and ineludible demonstrations. Glanvill.
inembryonate: Not embryonate.
inenarrable: Incapable of being narrated; indescribable; ineffable. [Obs.]"Inenarrable goodness." Bp. Fisher.
ineptly: Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly.None of them are made foolishly or ineptly. Dr. H. More.
ineptness: Unfitness; ineptitude.The feebleness and miserable ineptness of infancy. Dr. H. More.
inequable: Unequable. [R.] Bailey.
inequal: Unequal; uneven; various. [Obs.] Chaucer.
inequality: An expression consisting of two unequal quantities, with thesign of inequality (> or <) between them; as, the inequality 2 < 3,or 4 > 1.
inequation: An inequality.
inequidistant: Not equally distant; not equidistant.
inequilateral: Having the two ends unequal, as in the clam, quahaug, and mostlamellibranch shells.
inequilobate: Unequally lobed; cut into lobes of different shapes or sizes.
inequitable: Not equitable; not just. Burke.
inequitate: To ride over or through. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
inequity: Want of equity; injustice; wrong. "Some form of inequity." H.Spencer.
ineradicable: Incapable of beingThe bad seed thus sown was ineradicable. Ld. Lytton.
ineradicably: So as not to be eradicable.
inergetically: Without energy. [R.]
inermis: Unarmed; destitute of prickles or thorns, as a leaf. Gray.
inerrability: Freedom or exemption from error; infallibility. Eikon Basilike.
inerrable: Incapable of erring; infallible; unerring. "Inerabble andrequisite conditions." Sir T. Browne. "Not an inerrable text."Gladstone.
inerrableness: Exemption from error; inerrability; infallibility. Hammond.
inerrably: With security from error; infallibly; unerringly.
inerrancy: Exemption from error.The absolute inerrancy odf the Bible. The Century.
inerratic: Not erratic or wandering; fixed; settled; established.
inerringly: Without error, mistake, or deviation; unerringly. Glanvill.
inertia: That property of matter by which it tends when at rest toremain so, and when in motion to continue in motion, and in the samestraight line or direction, unless acted on by some external force; -- sometimes called vis inertiæ.
inertion: Want of activity or exertion; inertness; quietude. [R.]These vicissitudes of exertion and inertion of the arterial systemconstitute the paroxysms of remittent fever. E. Darwin.
inertitude: Inertness; inertia. [R.] Good.
inertly: Without activity; sluggishly. Pope.
inerudite: Not erudite; unlearned; ignorant.
inescapable: Not escapable.
inescate: To allure; to lay a bait for. [Obs.]To inescate and beguile young women! Burton.
inescation: The act of baiting; allurement. [Obs.] Hallywell.
inescutcheon: A small escutcheon borne within a shield.
inestimable: Incapable of being estimated or computed; especially, toovaluable or excellent to be measured or fully appreciated; above allprice; as, inestimable rights or privileges.But above all, for thine inestimable love. Bk. of Com. Prayer.Science is too inestimable for expression by a money standard. LyonPlayfair.
inestimably: In a manner, or to a degree, above estimation; as, thingsinestimably excellent.
inevasible: Incapable of being
inevidence: Want of evidence; obscurity. [Obs.] Barrow.
inevident: Not evident; not clear or obvious; obscure.
inevitability: Impossibility to be avoided or shunned; inevitableness.Shelford.
inevitableness: The state of being unavoidable; certainty to happen. Prideaux.
inevitably: Without possibility of escape or evasion; unavoidably;certainly.Inevitably thou shalt die. Milton.How inevitably does immoderate laughter end in a sigh! South.
inexact: Not exact; not precisely correct or true; inaccurate.
inexactitude: Inexactness; uncertainty; as, geographical inexactitude.
inexactly: In a manner not exact or precise; inaccurately. R. A. Proctor.
inexactness: Incorrectness; want of exactness.
inexcitability: The quality of being inexcitable; insusceptibility toexcitement.
inexcitable: Not susceptible of excitement; dull; lifeless; torpid.
inexcusable: Not excusable; not admitting excuse or justification; as,inexcusable folly.Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art thatjudgest; for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself;for thou that judgest doest the same things. Rom. ii. 1.
inexcusableness: The quality of being inexcusable; enormity forgiveness. South.
inexcusably: With a degree of guilt or folly beyond excuse or justification.Inexcusably obstinate and perverse. Jortin.
inexecrable: That can not be execrated enough. [R.]
inexecutable: Incapable of being executed or performed; impracticable;infeasible.
inexecution: Neglect of execution; nonperformance; as, the inexecution of atreaty. Spence.
inexertion: Want of exertion; want of effort; defect of action; indolence;laziness.
inexhalable: Incapable of being exhaled. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
inexhausted: Not exhausted; not emptied; not spent; not having lost allstrength or resources; unexhausted. Dryden.
inexhaustedly: Without exhaustion.
inexhaustibility: The state or quality of being inexhaustible; abundance.
inexhaustible: Incapable of being exhausted, emptied, or used up; unfailing;not to be wasted or spent; as, inexhaustible stores of provisions; aninexhaustible stock of elegant words. Dryden.An inexhaustible store of anecdotes. Macaulay.-- In`ex*haust"i*ble*ness, n.-- In`ex*haust"i*bly, adv.
inexhaustive: Inexhaustible. Thomson.
inexist: To exist within; to dwell within. [Obs.]Substances inexisting within the divine mind. A. Tucker.
inexistant: Inexistent; not existing. [Obs.] Gudworth.
inexistence: Want of being or existence.
inexistent: Not having being; not existing.
inexorability: The quality of being inexorable, or unyielding to entreaty.Paley.
inexorable: Not to be persuaded or moved by entreaty or prayer; firm;determined; unyielding; unchangeable; inflexible; relentless; as, aninexorable prince or tyrant; an inexorable judge. "Inexorableequality of laws." Gibbon. "Death's inexorable doom." Dryden.You are more inhuman, more inexorable, O, ten times more than tigersof Hyrcania. Shak.
inexorableness: The quality or state of being inexorable. Chillingworth.
inexorably: In an inexorable manner; inflexibly. "Inexorably firm."Thomson.
inexpansible: Incapable of expansion, enlargement, or extension. Tyndall.
inexpectable: Not to be expected or anticipated. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
inexpectant: Not expectant. C. Bronté.
inexpectation: Absence of expectation. Feltham.
inexpected: Unexpected. [Obs.]
inexpectedly: Unexpectedly. [Obs.]
inexpectedness: Unexpectedness. [Obs.]
inexpedient: Not expedient; not tending to promote a purpose; not tending tothe end desired; inadvisable; unfit; improper; unsuitable to time andplace; as, what is expedient at one time may be inexpedient atanother.If it was not unlawful, yet it was highly inexpedient to use thoseceremonies. Bp. Burnet.
inexpediently: Not
inexpensive: Not expensive; cheap.
inexperience: Absence or want of experience; lack of personal andexperimental knowledge; as, the inexperience of youth.Failings which are incident to youth and inexperience. Dryden.Prejudice and self-sufficiency naturally proceed from inexperience ofthe world, and ignorance of mankind. Addison.
inexperienced: Not having experience unskilled. "Inexperienced youth." Cowper.
inexpertness: Want of expertness or skill.
inexpiableness: Quality of being inexpiable.
inexpiably: In an inexpiable manner of degree; to a degree that admits ofno atonement.
inexpiate: Not appeased or placated. [Obs.]To rest inexpiate were much too rude a part. Chapman.
inexplainable: Incapable of being explained; inexplicable.
inexpleably: Insatiably. [Obs.] Sandys.
inexplicability: The quality or state of being inexplicable. H. Spencer.
inexplicable: Not explicable; not explainable; incapable of being explained,interpreted, or accounted for; as, an inexplicable mystery. "Aninexplicable scratching." Cowper.Their reason is disturbed; their views become vast and perplexed, toothers inexplicable, to themselves uncertain. Burke.
inexplicableness: A state of being inexplicable; inexplicability.
inexplicably: In an inexplicable manner.
inexplicit: Not explicit; not clearly stated; indefinite; vague.
inexplorable: Incapable of being explored, searched out, or discovered. SirG. Buck.
inexplosive: Not explosive.
inexposure: A state of not being exposed.
inexpressible: Not capable of expression or utterance in language; ineffable;unspeakable; indescribable; unutterable; as, inexpressible grief orpleasure. "Inexpressible grandeur." Blair.In orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood. Milton.
inexpressibles: Breeches; trousers. [Colloq. or Slang] Ld. Lytton.
inexpressibly: In an inexpressible manner or degree; unspeakably; unutterably.Spectator.
inexpressiveness: The state or quality of being inexpressive.
inexpugnable: Incapable of being subdued by force; impregnable;unconquerable. Burke.A fortress, inexpugnable by the arts of war. Milman.
inexpugnably: So as to be inexpugnable; in an inexpugnable manner. Dr. H.More.
inexsuperable: Not capable of being passed over; insuperable; insurmountable.
inextended: Not extended.
inextensible: Not capable of being extended; not elastic; as, inextensiblefibers.
inextension: Want of extension; unextended state.
inexterminable: Incapable of extermination. Rush.
inextinct: Not quenched; not extinct.
inextinguible: Inextinguishable. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
inextinguishable: Not capable of being extinguished; extinguishable;unquenchable; as, inextinguishable flame, light, thirst, desire,feuds. "Inextinguishable rage." Milton.
inextinguishably: So as not to be extinguished; in an inextinguishable manner.
inextirpable: Not capable of being extirpated or rooted out; ineradicable.
inextricableness: The state of being inextricable.
inextricably: In an inextricable manner.
ineye: To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud oreye; to inoculate.The arts of grafting and ineying. J. Philips.
infabricated: Not fabricated; unwrought; not artificial; natural. [Obs.]
infallibilist: One who accepts or maintains the dogma of papal infallibility.
infallibility: The quality or state of being infallible, or exempt from error;inerrability.Infallibility is the highest perfection of the knowing faculty.Tillotson.Papal infallibility (R. C. Ch.), the dogma that the pope can not,when acting in his official character of supreme pontiff, err indefining a doctrine of Christian faith or rule of morals, to be heldby the church. This was decreed by the Ecumenical Council at theVatican, July 18, 1870.
infallible: Incapable of error in defining doctrines touching faith ormorals. See Papal infallibility, under Infallibility.
infallibleness: The state or quality of being infallible; infallibility. Bp.Hall.
infallibly: In an infallible manner; certainly; unfailingly; unerringly.Blair.
infame: To defame; to make infamous. [Obs.] Milton.Livia is infamed for the poisoning of her husband. Bacon.
infamize: To make infamous; to defame. [R.] Coleridge.
infamous: Branded with infamy by conviction of a crime; as, at commonlaw, an infamous person can not be a witness.
infamously: In an infamous manner or degree; scandalously; disgracefully;shamefully.The sealed fountain of royal bounty which had been infamouslymonopolized and huckstered. Burke.
infamousness: The state or quality of being infamous; infamy.
infamy: That loss of character, or public disgrace, which a convictincurs, and by which he is at common law rendered incompetent as awitness.
infancy: The state or condition of one under age, or under the age oftwenty-one years; nonage; minority.
infandous: Too odious to be expressed or mentioned. [Obs.] Howell.
infangthef: The privilege granted to lords of certain manors to judgethieves taken within the seigniory of such lords. Cowell.
infant: A person who is not of full age, or who has not attained theage of legal capacity; a person under the age of twenty-one years; aminor.
infanta: A title borne by every one of the daughters of the kings ofSpain and Portugal, except the eldest.
infante: A title given to every one of sons of the kings of Spain andPortugal, except the eldest or heir apparent.
infanthood: Infancy. [R.]
infanticidal: Of or pertaining to infanticide; engaged in, or guilty of,child murder.
infanticide: The murder of an infant born alive; the murder or killing of anewly born or young child; child murder.
infantile: Of or pertaining to infancy, or to an infant; similar to, orcharacteristic of, an infant; childish; as, infantile behavior.
infantile paralysis: An acute disease, almost exclusively infantile, characterizedby inflammation of the anterior horns of the gray substance of thespinal cord. It is attended with febrile symptoms, motor paralysis,and muscular atrophy, often producing permanent deformities. Calledalso acute anterior poliomyelitis.
infantine: Infantile; childish.A degree of credulity next infantine. Burke.
infantlike: Like an infant. Shak.
infantly: Like an infant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
infantry: A body of soldiers serving on foot; foot soldiers, indistinction from cavalry.
infarce: To stuff; to swell. [Obs.]The body is infarced with . . . watery humors. Sir T. Elyot.
infarction: The act of stuffing or filling; an overloading and obstructionof any organ or vessel of the body; constipation.
infare: A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, orentertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband uponreceiving the wife to his house. [Written also infair.] [Scot., &Local, U. S.]
infashionable: Unfashionable. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
infatigable: Indefatigable. [Obs.] Daniel.
infatuate: Infatuated. Bp. Hall.
infatuated: Overcome by some foolish passion or desire; affected byinfatuation.
infatuation: The act of infatuating; the state of being infatuated; folly;that which infatuates.The infatuations of the sensual and frivolous part of mankind areamazing; but the infatuations of the learned and sophistical areincomparably more so. I. Taylor.Such is the infatuation of self-love. Blair.
infaust: Not favorable; unlucky; unpropitious; sinister. [R.] Ld.Lytton.
infausting: The act of making unlucky; misfortune; bad luck. [Obs.] Bacon.
infeasibility: The state of being infeasible; impracticability.
infeasible: Not capable of being done or accomplished; impracticable.Glanvill.
infeasibleness: The state of quality of being infeasible; infeasibility. W.Montagu.
infect: Infected. Cf. Enfect. [Obs.] Shak.
infecter: One who, or that which, infects.
infectible: Capable of being infected.
infection: Contamination by illegality, as in cases of contraband goods;implication.
infectious: Contaminating with illegality; exposing to seizure andforfeiture.Contraband articles are said to be of an infectious nature. Kent.
infectiously: In an infectious manner. Shak.
infectiousness: The quality of being infectious.
infective: Infectious. Beau. & Fl.True love . . . hath an infective power. Sir P. Sidney.
infecund: Unfruitful; not producing young; barren; infertile. [Obs.]Evelyn.
infecundity: Want of fecundity or fruitfulness; barrenness; sterility;unproductiveness.
infecundous: Infertile; barren; unprofitable; unproductive. [Obs.] Glanvill.
infeeble: See Enfeeble.
infelicitous: Not felicitous; unhappy; unfortunate; not fortunate orappropriate in application; not well said, expressed, or done; as, aninfelicitous condition; an infelicitous remark; an infelicitousdescription; infelicitous words.
infelonious: Not felonious, malignant, or criminal. G. Eliot.
infelt: Felt inwardly; heartfelt. [R.]The baron stood afar off, or knelt in submissive, acknowledged,infelt inferiority. Milman.
infeodation: See Infeudation.
infeoff: See Enfeoff.
infeoffment: See Enfeoffment.
inferable: Capable of being inferred or deduced from premises. [Writtenalso inferrible.] H. Spencer.A sufficient argument . . . is inferable from these premises. Burke.
inferential: Deduced or deducible by inference. "Inferential proofs." J. S.Mill.
inferentially: By way of inference.
inferiae: Sacrifices offered to the souls of deceased heroes or friends.
inferior: Junior or subordinate in rank; as, an inferior officer.Inferior court (Law), a court subject to the jurisdiction of anothercourt known as the superior, or higher, court.-- Inferior letter, Inferior figure (Print.), a small letter orfigure standing at the bottom of the line (opposed to superior letteror figure), as in A2, Bn, 2 and n are inferior characters.-- Inferior tide, the tide corresponding to the moon's transit ofthe meridian, when below the horizon.
inferiority: The state of being inferior; a lower state or condition; as,inferiority of rank, of talents, of age, of worth.A deep sense of our own great inferiority. Boyle.
inferiorly: In an inferior manner, or on the inferior part.
infernal: An inhabitant of the infernal regions; also, the place itself.[Obs.] Drayton.
infernally: In an infernal manner; diabolically. "Infernally false." Bp.Hacket.
inferno: The infernal regions; hell. Also used fig.
inferobranchian: One of the Inferobranchiata.
inferobranchiata: A suborder of marine gastropod mollusks, in which the gills arebetween the foot and the mantle.
inferobranchiate: Having the gills on the sides of the body, under the margin ofthe mantle; belonging to the Inferobranchiata.
inferrible: Inferable.
infertile: Not fertile; not productive; barren; sterile; as, an infertilesoil.
infertilely: In an infertile manner.
infertility: The state or quality of being infertile; unproductiveness;barrenness.The infertility or noxiousness of the soil. Sir M. Hale.
infest: Mischievous; hurtful; harassing. [Obs.] Spenser.
infestation: The act of infesting or state of being infested; molestation;vexation; annoyance. Bacon.Free from the infestation of enemies. Donne.
infester: One who, or that which, infests.
infestive: Having no mirth; not festive or merry; dull; cheerless; gloomy;forlorn. [R.]
infestivity: Want of festivity, cheerfulness, or mirth; dullness;cheerlessness. [R.]
infestuous: Mischievous; harmful; dangerous. [Obs.] "Infestuous asserpents." Bacon.
infeudation: The act of putting one in possession of an estate in fee. SirM. Hale.
infidel: Not holding the faith; -- applied esp. to one who does notbelieve in the inspiration of the Scriptures, and the supernaturalorigin of Christianity.The infidel writer is a great enemy to society. V. Knox.
infield: To inclose, as a field. [R.]
infile: To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order. [Obs.]Holland.
infilm: To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metalwith another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of amirror. [R.]
infilter: To filter or sift in.
infiltrate: To enter by penetrating the pores or interstices of asubstance; to filter into or through something.The water infiltrates through the porous rock. Addison.
infiltrative: Of or pertaining to infiltration. Kane.
infinite: Greater than any assignable quantity of the same kind; -- saidof certain quantities.
infiniteness: The state or quality of being infinite; infinity; greatness;immensity. Jer. Taylor.
infinitesimal: Infinitely or indefinitely small; less than any assignablequantity or value; very small. Infinitesimal calculus, the differentand the integral calculus, when developed according to the methodused by Leibnitz, who regarded the increments given to variables asinfinitesimal.
infinitesimally: By infinitesimals; in infinitely small quantities; in aninfinitesimal degree.
infinitival: Pertaining to the infinite mood. "Infinitival stems." Fitzed.Hall.
infinitive: Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined. Infinitivemood (Gram.), that form of the verb which merely names the action,and performs the office of a verbal noun. Some grammarians make twoforms in English
infinito: Infinite; perpetual, as a canon whose end leads back to thebeginning. See Infinite, a., 5.
infinituple: Multipied an infinite number of times. [R.] Wollaston.
infinity: A quantity greater than any assignable quantity of the samekind.
infirm: To weaken; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
infirmarian: A person dwelling in, or having charge of, an infirmary, esp.in a monastic institution.
infirmary: A hospital, or place where the infirm or sick are lodged andnursed gratuitously, or where out-patients are treated.
infirmative: Weakening; annulling, or tending to make void. [Obs.]
infirmatory: An infirmary. [Obs.]
infirmly: In an infirm manner.
infirmness: Infirmity; feebleness. Boyle.
infix: Something infixed. [R.] Welsford.
inflame: To put in a state of inflammation; to produce morbid heat,congestion, or swelling, of; as, to inflame the eyes by overwork.
inflamed: Represented as burning, or as adorned with tongues of flame.
inflamer: The person or thing that inflames. Addison.
inflammabillty: Susceptibility of taking fire readily; the state or quality ofbeing inflammable.
inflammableness: The quality or state of being inflammable; inflammability.Boyle.
inflammably: In an inflammable manner.
inflammation: A morbid condition of any part of the body, consisting incongestion of the blood vessels, with obstruction of the bloodcurrent, and growth of morbid tissue. It is manifested outwardly byredness and swelling, attended with heat and pain.
inflammative: Inflammatory.
inflammatory: Accompanied with, or tending to cause, preternatural heat andexcitement of arterial action; as, an inflammatory disease.Inflammatory crust. (Med.) Same as Buffy coat, under Buffy.-- Inflammatory fever, a variety of fever due to inflammation.
inflatable: That may be inflated.
inflate: Blown in; inflated. Chaucer.
inflated: Hollow and distended, as a perianth, corolla, nectary, orpericarp. Martyn.
inflater: One who, or that which, inflates; as, the inflaters of thestock exchange.
inflatingly: In a manner tending to inflate.
inflationist: One who favors an increased or very large issue of paper money.[U.S.]
inflatus: A blowing or breathing into; inflation; inspiration.The divine breath that blows the nostrils out To ineffable inflatus.Mrs. Browning.
inflect: To vary, as a noun or a verb in its terminations; to decline,as a noun or adjective, or to conjugate, as a verb.
inflected: Having inflections; capable of, or subject to, inflection;inflective. Inflected cycloid (Geom.), a prolate cycloid. SeeCycloid.
inflection: The variation or change which words undergo to mark case,gender, number, comparison, tense, person, mood, voice, etc.
inflectional: Of or pertaining to inflection; having, or characterized by,inflection. Max Müller.
inflective: Inflectional; characterized by variation, or change in form, tomark case, tense, etc.; subject to inflection. Inflective language(Philol.), a language like the Greek or Latin, consisting largely ofstems with variable terminations or suffixes which were onceindependent words. English is both agglutinative, as, manlike,headache, and inflective, as, he, his, him. Cf. Agglutinative.
inflesh: To incarnate.
inflex: To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; todeflect. J. Philips.
inflexed: Bent or turned abruptly inwards, or toward the axis, as thepetals of a flower.
inflexibility: The quality or state of being inflexible, or not capable ofbeing bent or changed; unyielding stiffness; inflexibleness;rigidity; firmness of will or purpose; unbending pertinacity;steadfastness; resoluteness; unchangeableness; obstinacy.The inflexibility of mechanism. A. Baxter.That grave inflexibility of soul. Churchill.The purity and inflexibility of their faith. T. Warton.
inflexibleness: The quality or state of being inflexible; inflexibility;rigidity; firmness.
inflexibly: In an inflexible manner.
inflexion: Inflection.
inflexure: An inflection; a bend or fold. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
inflict: To give, cause, or produce by striking, or as if by striking;to apply forcibly; to lay or impose; to send; to cause to bear, feel,or suffer; as, to inflict blows; to inflict a wound with a dagger; toinflict severe pain by ingratitude; to inflict punishment on anoffender; to inflict the penalty of death on a criminal.What heart could wish, what hand inflict, this dire disgrace Drygen.The persecution and the pain That man inflicts on infero-ior kinds.Cowper.
inflicter: One who inflicts.Godis the sole and immadiate inflicter of such strokes. South.
inflictive: Causing infliction; acting as an infliction. Whitehead.
inflow: To flow in. Wiseman.
influence: Induction.
influencer: One who, or that which, influences.
influencive: Tending toinfluence; influential.
influential: Exerting or possessing influence or power; potent; efficacious;effective; strong; having authority or ascendency; as, an influentialman, station, argument, etc.A very influential Gascon prefix. Earle.
influentially: In an influential manner.
influenza: An epidemic affection characterized by acute nasal catarrh, orby inflammation of the throat or the bronchi, and usually accompaniedby fever.
influxion: A flowing in; infusion. [R.] Bacon.
influxious: Influential. [Obs.]
influxive: Having a tendency to flow in; having influence; influential.[R.] Holdsworth.
influxively: By influxion. [R.]
infoldment: The act of infolding; the state of being infolded.
infoliate: To cover or overspread with, or as with, leaves. [R.] Howell.
inform: Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed. Cotton.
informally: In an informal manner.
information: A proceeding in the nature of a prosecution for some offensagainst the government, instituted and prosecuted, really ornominally, by some authorized public officer on behalt of thegovernment. It differs from an indictment in criminal cases chieflyin not being based on the finding of a grand juri. See Indictment.
informative: Having power to inform, animate, or vivify. Dr. H. More.
informatory: Full of, or conveying, information; instructive. [R.] LondonSpectator.
informed: Unformed or ill-formed; deformed; shapeless. [Obs.] Spenser.Informed stars. See under Unformed.
informer: One who informs a magistrate of violations of law; one whoinforms against another for violation of some law or penal statute.Common informer (Law), one who habitually gives information of theviolation of penal statutes, with a view to a prosecution therefor.Bouvier. Wharton.
informidable: Not formidable; not to be feared or dreaded. [Obs.] "Foe notinformidable." Milton.
informity: Want of regular form; shapelessness. [Obs.]
informous: Of irregular form; shapeless. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
infortunate: Unlucky; unfortunate. [Obs.] Shak."A most infortynate chance." Howell.- In*for"tu*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.]
infortune: Misfortune. [Obs.] Chaucer.
infortuned: Unfortunate. [Obs.]I, woeful wretch and infortuned wight. Chaucer.
infound: To pour in; to infuse. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
infra: Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.
infra-axillary: Situated below the axil, as a bud.
infra-red: Lying outside the visible spectrum at its red end; -- said ofrays less refrangible than the extreme red rays.
infrabranchial: Below the gills; -- applied to the ventral portion of thepallial chamber in the lamellibranchs.
infraclavicular: Below the clavicle; as, the infraclavicular fossa.
infract: Not broken or fractured; unharmed; whole. [Obs.] Chapman.
infractible: Capable of being broken.[R.]
infraction: The act of infracting or breaking; breach; violation;nonobservance; infringement; as, an infraction of a treaty, compact,rule, or law. I. Watts.
infractor: One who infracts or infringes; a violator; a breaker.
infragrant: Not fragrant.
infrahyoid: Same as Hyosternal (a).
infralabial: Below the lower lip; -- said of certain scales of reptiles andfishes.
infralapsarian: One of that class of Calvinists who consider the decree ofelection as contemplating the apostasy as past and the elect as beingat the time of election in a fallen and guilty state; -- opposed toSupralapsarian. The former considered the election of grace as aremedy for an existing evil; the latter regarded the fall as a partof God's original purpose in regard to men.
infralapsarianism: The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Inralapsarians.
inframarginal: Below the margin; submarginal; as, an inframarginal convolutionof the brain.
inframedian: Of or pertaining to the interval or zone along the sea bottom,at the depth of between fifty and one hundred fathoms. E. Forbes.
inframundane: Lying or situated beneath the world.
infranchise: See Enfranchise.
infrangibility: The quality or state of being infrangible; infrangibleness.
infrangibleness: The state or quality of being infrangible; infrangibility.
infraocular: Situated below the eyes, as the antenna of certain insects.
infraorbital: Below the orbit; as, the infraorbital foramen; the infraorbitalnerve.
infrapose: To place under or beneath. [R.]
infraposition: A situation or position beneath. Kane.
infrascapular: Beneath the scapula, or shoulder blade; subscapular.
infraspinal: Below the spine; infraspinal; esp., below the spine of thescapula; as, the infraspinous fossa; the infraspinate muscle.
infrastapedial: Of or pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, whichin many animals projects below the connection with the stapes.-- n.
infrasternal: Below the sternum; as, the infrasternal depression, or pit ofthe stomach.
infratemporal: Below the temple; below the temporal bone.
infraterritorial: Within the territory of a state. Story.
infratrochlear: Below a trochlea, or pulley; -- applied esp. to one of thesubdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.
infrequent: Seldom happening or occurring; rare; uncommon; unusual.The act whereof is at this day infrequent or out of use among allsorts of men. Sir T. Elyot.
infrequently: Not frequently; rarely.
infrigidate: To chill; to make cold; to cool. [Obs.] Boyle.
infrigidation: The act of chilling or causing to become cold; a chilling;coldness; congelation. [Obs.] Boyle.
infringer: One who infringes or violates; a violator. Strype.
infructuose: Not producing fruit; unfruitful; unprofitable. [R.] T. Adams.
infrugal: Not frugal; wasteful; as, an infrugal expense of time. J.Goodman.
infrugiferous: Not bearing fruit; not fructiferous.
infucate: To stain; to paint; to daub.
infucation: The act of painting or staining, especially of painting theface.
infula: A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others amongthe ancient Romans. It was generally white.
infumate: To dry by exposing to smoke; to expose to smoke.
infumated: Clouded; having a cloudy appearance.
infumation: Act of drying in smoke.
infumed: Dried in smoke; smoked.
infundibuliform: Same as Funnelform.
infundibulum: A funnel-shaped or dilated organ or part; as, the infundibulumof the brain, a hollow, conical process, connecting the floor of thethird ventricle with the pituitary body; the infundibula of thelungs, the enlarged terminations of the bronchial tubes.
infuneral: To inter with funeral rites; to bury. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
infurcation: A forked exlpansion or divergence; a bifurcation; a branching.Craig.
infuriate: Enraged; rading; furiously angry; infuriated. Milton.Inflamed beyond the most infuriate wrath. Thomson.
infuriated: Enraged; furious.
infuscate: To darken; to make black; to obscure.
infuscated: Darkened with a blackish tinge.
infuscation: The act of darkening, or state of being dark; darkness;obscurity. Johnson.
infuse: Infusion. [Obs.] Spenser.
infuser: One who, or that which, infuses.
infusibility: Capability of being infused, pouredin, or instilled.
infusible: Capable of being infused.Doctrines being infusible into all. Hammond.
infusibleness: Infusibility.
infusionism: The doctrine that the soul is preexistent to the body, and isinfused into it at conception or birth; -- opposed to tradicianismand creationism.
infusive: Having the power of infusion; inspiring; influencing.The infusive force of Spirit on man. Thomson.
infusoria: One of the classes of Protozoa, including a large number ofspecies, all of minute size.
infusorial: Belonging to the Infusoria; composed of, or containing,Infusoria; as, infusorial earth. Infusorial earth (Geol.), a depositof fine, usually white, siliceous material, composed mainly of theshells of the microscopic plants called diatoms. It is used inpolishing powder, and in the manufacture of dynamite.
infusorian: One of the Infusoria.
infusory: Infusorial.
ing: A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river.[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
ingannation: Cheat; deception. [Obs.] Sir T. Brown.
ingate: The aperture in a mold for pouring in the metal; the gate.Simmonds.
ingathering: The act or business of gathering or collecting anything;especially, the gathering of the fruits of the earth; harvest.Thou shalt keep . . . the feast of ingathering. Ex. xxii. 16.
ingelable: Not congealable.
ingeminate: Redoubled; repeated. Jer. Taylor.
ingemination: Repetition; reduplication; reiteration. De Quincey.That Sacred ingemination, Amen, Amen. Featley.Happiness with an echo or ingemination. Holdsworth.
ingena: The gorilla.
ingender: See Engender.
ingenerabillty: Incapacity of being engendered or produced. Cudworth.
ingenerable: Incapble of being engendered or produced; original. Holland.
ingenerably: In an ingenerable manner.
ingenerate: Generated within; inborn; innate; as, ingenerate powers ofbody. W. Wotton.Those virtues were rather feigned and affected . . . than truequalities ingenerate in his judgment. Bacon.
ingeneration: Act of ingenerating.
ingeniate: To invent; to contrive. [Obs.] Daniel.
ingenie: See Ingeny.
ingeniosity: Ingenuity; skill; cunning. [Obs.] Cudworth.
ingeniously: In an ingenious manner; with ingenuity; skillfully; wittily;cleverly."Too ingeniously politic." Sir W. Temple.
ingeniousness: The quality or state of being ingenious; ingenuity.
ingenue: An ingenuous or naïve girl or young woman, or an actressrepresenting such a person.
ingenuously: In an ingenuous manner; openly; fairly; candidly; artlessly.Being required to explane himself, he ingeniously confessed. Ludlow.
ingeny: Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity. [Obs.][Written also ingenie.] Becon.
ingerminate: To cause to germinate.
ingest: To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal. SirT. Browne.
ingesta: That which is introduced into the body by the stomach oralimentary canal; -- opposed to egesta.
ingestion: The act of taking or putting into the stomach; as, theingestion of milk or other food.
inghalla: The reedbuck of South Africa. [Written also ingali.]
ingirt: To encircle to gird; to engirt.The wreath is ivy that ingirts our beams. Drayton.
ingle: Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. Inglenock, the chimney corner.-- Ingle side, Ingle cheek, the fireside.
inglobate: In the form of a globe or sphere; -- applied to nebulous mattercollected into a sphere by the force of gravitation.
inglobe: To infix, as in a globe; to fix or secure firmly. [Obs.]Milton.
ingloriously: In an inglorious manner; dishonorably; with shame;ignominiously; obscurely.
ingloriousness: The state of being inglorious.
inglut: To glut. [R.] Ascham.
ingluvial: Of or pertaining to the indulges or crop of birds.
ingluvies: The crop, or craw, of birds.
ingluvious: Gluttonous. [Obs.] Blount.
ingorge: See Engorge. Milton.
ingot steel: Steel cast in ingots from the Bessemer converter or open-hearthfurnace.
ingrace: To ingratiate. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
ingracious: Ungracious; unkind. [Obs.] Holland.
ingraff: See Ingraft. [Obs.]
ingrafter: A person who ingrafts.
ingrain: An ingrain fabric, as a carpet.
ingrapple: To seize; to clutch; to grapple. [Obs.] Drayton.
ingrate: Ingrateful. [Obs. or Poetic] Bacon.
ingrately: Ungratefully. [Obs.]
ingratiate: To gain favor. [R.] Sir W. Temple.
ingratitude: Want of gratitude; insensibility to, forgetfulness of, or illreturn for, kindness or favors received; unthankfulness;ungratefulness.Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend. Shak.Ingratitude is abhorred both by God and man. L'Estrange.
ingrave: To engrave. [R.] "Whose gleaming rind ingrav'n." Tennyson.
ingravidate: To impregnate. [Obs.] Fuller.
ingravidation: The state of being pregnant or impregnated. [Obs.]
ingreat: To make great; to enlarge; to magnify. [Obs.] Fotherby.
ingredient: That which enters into a compound, or is a component part ofany combination or mixture; an element; a constituent.By way of analysis we may proceed from compounds to ingredients. SirI. Newton.Water is the chief ingredient in all the animal fluids and solids.Arbuthnot.
ingress: The entrance of the moon into the shadow of the earth ineclipses, the sun's entrance into a sign, etc.
ingression: Act of entering; entrance. Sir K. Digby.
ingrieve: To render more grievous; to aggravate. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ingroove: To groove in; to join in or with a groove. Tennyson.
ingross: See Engross.
ingrowing: Growing or appearing to grow into some other substance.Ingrowing nail, one whose edges are becoming imbedded in the adjacentflesh.
ingrowth: A growth or development inward. J. LeConte.
inguen: The groin.
inguilty: Not guilty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
inguinal: Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the inguen or groin;as, an inguinal canal or ligament; inguinal hernia. Inguinal ring.See Abdominal ring, under Abdominal.
ingulf: To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into agulf. See Engulf.A river large . . . Passed underneath ingulfed. Milton.
ingulfment: The act of ingulfing, or the state of being ingulfed.
ingurgitate: To guzzle; to swill. Burton.
ingurgitation: The act of swallowing greedily or immoderately; that which isso swallowed. E. Darwin.He drowned his stomach and senses with a large draught andingurgitation of wine. Bacon.
ingustable: Tasteless; insipid. Sir T. Browne.
inhability: Unsuitableness; unaptness; unfitness; inability. [Obs.] Barrow.
inhabit: To live or dwell in; to occupy, as a place of settledresidence; as, wild beasts inhabit the forest; men inhabit cities andhouses.The high and lofty One, that inhabiteth eternity. Is. lvii. 15.O, who would inhabit This bleak world alone Moore.
inhabitable: Capable of being inhabited; habitable.Systems of inhabitable planets. Locke.
inhabitant: One who has a legal settlement in a town, city, or parish; apermanent resident.
inhabitate: To inhabit. [Obs.]
inhabitativeness: A tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place orabode; love of home and country.
inhabited: Uninhabited. [Obs.] Brathwait.
inhabiter: An inhabitant. [R.] Derham.
inhabitiveness: See Inhabitativeness.What the phrenologists call inhabitiveness. Lowell.
inhabitress: A female inhabitant. [R.]
inhalant: Inhaling; used for inhaling.
inhalation: The act of inhaling; also, that which is inhaled.
inhale: To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhaleair; -- opposed to exhale.Martin was walking forth to inhale the fresh breeze of the evening.Arbuthnot.
inhalent: Used for inhaling; as, the inhalent end of a duct. Dana.
inhance: See Enhance.
inharmoniously: Without harmony.
inharmoniousness: The quality of being inharmonious; want of harmony; discord.The inharmoniousness of a verse. A. Tucker.
inharmony: Want of harmony.
inhearse: To put in, or as in, a hearse or coffin. Shak.
inhere: To be inherent; to stick (in); to be fixed or permanentlyincorporated with something; to cleave (to); to belong, as attributesor qualities.They do but inhere in the subject that supports them. Digby.
inherent: Permanently existing in something; inseparably attached orconnected; naturally pertaining to; innate; inalienable; as, polarityis an inherent quality of the magnet; the inherent right of men tolife, liberty, and protection. "A most inherent baseness." Shak.The sore disease which seems inherent in civilization. Southey.
inherently: By inherence; inseparably.Matter hath inherently and essentially such an internal energy.Bentley.
inherit: To take by descent from an ancestor; to take by inheritance; totake as heir on the death of an ancestor or other person to whoseestate one succeeds; to receive as a right or title descendible bylaw from an ancestor at his decease; as, the heir inherits the landor real estate of his father; the eldest son of a nobleman inheritshis father's title; the eldest son of a king inherits the crown.
inheritability: The quality of being inheritable or descendible to heirs.Jefferson.
inheritable: Capable of taking by inheritance, or of receiving by descent;capable of succeeding to, as an heir.By attainder . . . the blood of the person attainted is so corruptedas to be rendered no longer inheritable. Blackstone.The eldest daughter of the king is also alone inheritable to thecrown on failure of issue male. Blackstone.Inheritable blood, blood or relationship by which a person becomesqualified to be an heir, or to transmit possessions by inheritance.
inheritably: By inheritance. Sherwood.
inheritance: Transmission and reception by animal or plant generation.
inheritor: One who inherits; an heir.Born inheritors of the dignity. Milton.
inheritress: A heiress. Milman.
inheritrix: Same as Inheritress. Shak.
inherse: See Inhearse.
inhesion: The state of existing, of being inherent, in something;inherence. A. Baxter.Constant inhesion and habitual abode. South.
inhiation: A gaping after; eager desire; craving. [R.] Bp. Hall.
inhibition: A stopping or checking of an already present action; arestraining of the function of an organ, or an agent, as a digestivefluid or ferment, etc.; as, the inhibition of the respiratory centerby the pneumogastric nerve; the inhibition of reflexes, etc.
inhibitor: That which causes inhibitory action; esp., an inhibitory nerve.
inhibitory: Of or pertaining to, or producing, inhibition; consisting ininhibition; tending or serving to inhibit; as, the inhibitory actionof the pneumogastric on the respiratory center.I would not have you consider these criticisms as inhibitory. Lamb.Inhibitory nerves (Physiol.), those nerves which modify, inhibit, orsuppress a motor or secretory act already in progress.
inhibitory-motor: A term applied to certain nerve centers which govern orrestrain subsidiary centers, from which motor impressions issue.McKendrick.
inhive: To place in a hive; to hive.
inhold: To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess. [Obs.] SirW. Raleigh.
inholder: An inhabitant. [Obs.] Spenser.
inhoop: To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop. [R.] Shak.
inhospitality: The quality or state of being inhospitable; inhospitableness;lack of hospitality. Bp. Hall.
inhumanity: The quality or state of being inhuman; cruelty; barbarity.Man's inhumanity to man Makes countless thousands mourn. Burns.
inhumanly: In an inhuman manner; cruelly; barbarously.
inhumate: To inhume; to bury; to inter. Hedge.
inhumation: The act of burying vessels in warm earth in order to exposetheir contents to a steady moderate heat; the state of being thusexposed.
inia: A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis). It isten or twelve feet long, and has a hairy snout.
inial: Pertaining to the inion.
inimaginable: Unimaginable; inconceivable. [R.] Bp. Pearson.
inimicality: The state or quality of being inimical or hostile; hostility;unfriendliness. [R.]
inimically: In an inimical manner.
inimicitious: Inimical; unfriendly. [R.] Sterne.
inimicous: Inimical; hurtful. [Obs.] Evelyn.
inimitability: The quality or state of being inimitable; inimitableness.Norris.
inimitable: Not capable of being imitated, copied, or counterfeited; beyondimitation; surpassingly excellent; matchless; unrivaled; exceptional;unique; as, an inimitable style; inimitable eloquence. "Inimitableforce." Dryden.Performing such inimitable feats. Cowper.-- In*im"i*ta*ble*ness, n.-- In*im"i*ta*bly, adv.
inion: The external occipital protuberance of the skull.
iniquitous: Characterized by iniquity; unjust; wicked; as, an iniquitousbargain; an iniquitous proceeding.Demagogues . . . bribed to this iniquitous service. Burke.
iniquitously: In an iniquitous manner; unjustly; wickedly.
iniquous: Iniquitous. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
inirritable: Not irritable; esp. (Physiol.), incapable of being stimulatedto action, as a muscle.-- In*ir`ri*ta*bil"i*ty, n.
inirritative: Not accompanied with excitement; as, an inirritative fever. E.Darwin.
inisle: To form into an island; to surround. [Obs.] Drayton.
initial: The first letter of a word or a name.
initially: In an initial or incipient manner or degree; at the beginning.Barrow.
initiate: To do the first act; to perform the first rite; to take theinitiative. [R.] Pope.
initiative: Serving to initiate; inceptive; initiatory; introductory;preliminary.
initiator: One who initiates.
initiatory: An introductory act or rite. [R.]
inition: Initiation; beginning. [Obs.] Sir R. Naunton.
inject: To fill (a vessel, cavity, or tissue) with a fluid or othersubstance; as, to inject the blood vessels.
injector: A contrivance for forcing feed water into a steam boiler by thedirect action of the steam upon the water. The water is driven intothe boiler by the impulse of a jet of the steam which becomescondensed as soon as it strikes the stream of cold water it impels; -- also called Giffard's injector, from the inventor.
injelly: To place in jelly. [R.]
injoin: See Enjoin.
injoint: To join; to unite. [R.] Shak.
injucundity: Unpleassantness; disagreeableness. [Obs.] Cockeram.
injudicable: Not cognizable by a judge. [Obs.] Bailey.
injudicial: Not according to the forms of law; not judicial. [R.]
injudiciously: In an injudicious manner.
injudiciousness: The quality of being injudicious; want of sound judgment;indiscretion. Whitlock.
injunction: A writ or process, granted by a court of equity, and, insomecases, under statutes, by a court of law,whereby a party is requiredto do or to refrain from doing certain acts, according to theexigency of the writ.
injure: To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt;to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as
injurer: One who injures or wrongs.
injuria: Injury; invasion of another's rights.
injuriously: In an injurious or hurtful manner; wrongfully; hurtfully;mischievously.
injuriousness: The quality of being injurious or hurtful; harmfulness; injury.
injury: Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings,rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures,or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss;mischief; wrong; evil; as, his health was impaired by a severeinjury; slander is an injury to the character.For he that doeth injury shall receve that he did evil. Wyclif(Col.iii. 25).Many times we do injury to a cause by dwelling on trifling arguments.I. Watts.Riot ascends above their loftiest towers, And injury and outrage.Milton.
ink: The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstonespindle runs.
inker: One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pador roller which inks the type.
inkfish: A cuttlefish. See Cuttlefish.
inkhorn: A small bottle of horn or other material formerly used forholding ink; an inkstand; a portable case for writing materials."With a writer's inkhorn by his side." Ezek. ix. 2.From his pocket the notary drew his papers and inkhorn. Longfellow.
inkhornism: Pedantry. Sir T. Wilson.
inkiness: The state or quality of being inky; blackness.
inking: Supplying or covering with ink. Inking roller, a somewhatelastic roller,used to spread ink over forms of type, copperplates,etc.-- Inking trough or table, a trough or table from which the inkingroller receives its ink.
inkle: A kind of tape or braid. Shak.
inkling: A hint; an intimation.The least inkling or glimpse of this island. Bacon.They had some inkling of secret messages. Clarendon.
inknee: Same as Knock-knee.
inkneed: See Knock-kneed.
inknot: To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together. Fuller.
inkstand: A small vessel for holding ink, to dip the pen into; also, adevice for holding ink and writing materials.
inkstone: A kind of stone containing native vitriol or subphate of iron,used in making ink.
inky: Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black."Inky blots." Shak. "Its inky blackness." Boyle.
inlace: To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace;also, to lace or enlace. P. Fletcher.
inlagation: The restitution of an outlawed person to the protection of thelaw; inlawing. Bouvier.
inlaid: of Inlay.
inland: The interior part of a country. Shak.
inlander: One who lives in the interior of a country, or at a distancefrom the sea. Sir T. Browne.
inlandish: Inland. [Obs.] T. Reeve(1657)
inlapidate: To convert into a stony substance; to petrity. [R.] Bacon.
inlard: See Inlard.
inlaw: To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under theprotection of the law. Burrill.
inlay: To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry,choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; toform an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions.Look,how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of brightgold. Shak.But these things are . . . borrowed by the monks to inlay theirstory. Milton.
inlayer: One who inlays, or whose occupation it is to inlay.
inleague: To ally, or form an alliance witgh; to unite; to combine.With a willingness inleague our blood With his, for purchase of fullgrowth in friendship. Ford.
inleaguer: To beleaguer. Holland.
inlighten: See Enlighten.
inlist: See Enlist.
inlive: To animate. [R.] B. Jonson.
inlock: To lock in, or inclose.
inlumine: See Illumine.
inly: Internal; interior; secret.Didst thou but know the inly touch of love. Shak.
inmacy: The state of being an inmate. [R.] Craig.
inmate: One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; afellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, orprison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place ordwelling.So spake the enemy of mankind, inclos'd In serpent, inmate bad.Milton.
inmeats: The edible viscera of animals, as the heart, liver, etc.
inmesh: To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh.
inmew: To inclose, as in a mew or cage. [R.] "Inmew the town below."Beau. & Fl.
inmost: Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part;innermost.And pierce the inmost center of the earth. Shak.The silent, slow, consuming fires, Which on my inmost vitals prey.Addison.
inn: To take lodging; to lodge. [R.] Addison.
innate: Originating in, or derived from, the constitution of theintellect, as opposed to acquired from experience; as, innate ideas.See A priori, Intuitive.There is an innate light in every man, discovering to him the firstlines of duty in the common notions of good and evil. South.Men would not be guilty if they did not carry in their mind commonnotions of morality,innate and written in divine letters. Fleming(Origen).If I could only show,as I hope I shall . . . how men, barely by theuse of their natural faculties, may attain to all the knowledge theyhave, without the help of any innate impressions; and may arrive atcertainty without any such original notions or principles. Locke.
innately: Naturally.
innateness: The quality of being innate.
innative: Native. [Obs.] Chapman.
innavigable: Incapable of being navigated; impassable by ships or vessels.Drygen.-- In*nav"i*ga*bly, adv.
inne: In. [Obs.]And eke in what array that they were inne. Chaucer.
innerly: More within. [Obs.] Baret.
innermost: Farthest inward; most remote from the outward part; inmost;deepest within. Prov. xviii. 8.
innermostly: In the innermost place. [R.]His ebon cross worn innermostly. Mrs. Browning.
innervate: To supply with nerves; as, the heart is innervated bypneumogastric and sympathetic branches.
innervation: Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system orin any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary forthe maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.
innerve: To give nervous energy or power to; to give increasedenergy,force,or courage to; to invigorate; to stimulate.
innholder: One who keeps an inn.
inning: Lands recovered from the sea. Ainsworth.
innitency: A leaning; pressure; weight. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
innixion: Act of leaning upon something; incumbency. [Obs.] Derham.
innkeeper: An innholder.
innocency: Innocence.
innocently: In an innocent manner.
innocuity: Innocuousness.
innocuous: Harmless; producing no ill effect; innocent.A patient, innocuous, innocent man. Burton.-- In*noc"u*ous*ly, adv.-- In*noc"u*ous*ness, n.Where the salt sea innocuously breaks. Wordsworth.
innodate: To bind up,as in a knot; to include. [Obs.] Fuller.
innominable: Not to be named. [R.] Testament of Love.
innominate: A term used in designating many parts otherwise unnamed; as,the innominate artery, a great branch of the arch of the aorta; theinnominate vein, a great branch of the superior vena cava. Innominatebone (Anat.), the great bone which makes a lateral half of the pelvisin mammals; hip bone; haunch bone; huckle bone. It is composed ofthree bones, ilium, ischium, and pubis, consolidated into one in theadult, though separate in the fetus, as also in many adult reptilesand amphibians.-- Innominate contracts (Law), in the Roman law, contracts without aspecific name.
innovate: To introduce novelties or changes; -- sometimes with in or on.Bacon.Every man,therefore,is not fit to innovate. Dryden.
innovation: A newly formed shoot, or the annually produced addition to thestems of many mosses.
innovationist: One who favors innovation.
innovative: Characterized by, or introducing, innovations. Fitzed. Hall.
innovator: One who innovates. Shak.
innubilous: Cloudless. [Obs.] Blount.
innuendo: An averment employed in pleading, to point the application ofmatter otherwise unintelligible; an interpretative parenthesis throwninto quoted matter to explain an obscure word or words; -- as, theplaintiff avers that the defendant said that he (innuendo theplaintiff) was a thief. Wharton.
innuent: Conveying a hint; significant. [Obs.] Burton.
innuit: An Eskimo.
innumerability: State of being innumerable. Fotherby.
innumerable: Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or numbered, formultitude; countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence, indefinitelynumerous; of great number.Innumerable as the stars of night. Milton.-- In*nu"mer*a*ble*ness, n.-- In*nu"mer*a*bly, adv.
innumerous: Innumerable. [Archaic] Milton.
innutrition: Want of nutrition; failure of nourishment. E. Darwin.
innutritious: Not nutritious; not furnishing nourishment.
innutritive: Innutritious.
innyard: The yard adjoining an inn.
inobedience: Disobedience. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.
inobedient: Not obedient; disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer.-- In`o*be"di*ent*ly, adv. [Obs.]
inobservable: Not observable.
inobservance: Want or neglect of observance. Bacon.
inobservant: Not observant; regardless; heedless. Bp. Hurd.-- In`ob*serv"ant*ly, adv.
inobservation: Neglect or want of observation. [R.]
inobtrusive: Not obtrusive; unobtrusive.-- In`ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.-- In`ob*tru"sive*ness, n.
inocarpin: A red, gummy, coloring matter, extracted from the colorlessjuice of the Otaheite chestnut (Inocarpus edulis).
inoccupation: Want of occupation.
inoceramus: An extinct genus of large, fossil, bivalve shells,allied to themussels. The genus is characteristic of the Cretaceous period.
inoculability: The qual ity or state of being inoculable.
inoculable: Capable of being inoculated; capable of communicating disease,or of being communicated, by inoculation.
inocular: Inserted in the corner of the eye; -- said of the antenn
inoculate: To communicate a disease to ( a person ) by insertinginfectious matter in the skin or flesh; as, to inoculate a personwith the virus of smallpox,rabies, etc. See Vaccinate.
inoculation: The act or practice of communicating a disease to a person inhealth, by inserting contagious matter in his skin or flesh.
inoculator: One who inoculates; one who propagates plants or diseases byinoculation.
inodiate: To make odious or hateful. [Obs.] South.
inodorate: Inodorous. [Obs.] Bacon.
inodorous: Emitting no odor; wthout smell; scentless; odorless.-- In*o"dor*ous*ness, n.
inofficial: Not official; not having official sanction or authoriy; notaccording to the forms or ceremony of official business; as,inofficial intelligence.Pinckney and Marshall would not make inofficial visits to discussofficial business. Pickering.
inofficially: Without the usual forms, or not in the official character.
inofficious: Regardless of natural obligation; contrary to natural duty;unkind; -- commonly said of a testament made without regard tonatural obligation, or by which a child is unjustly deprived ofinheritance. "The inofficious testament." Blackstone. "An inofficiousdisposition of his fortune." Paley.
inofficiously: Not-officiously.
inogen: A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann'shypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles,during their life.
inoperation: Agency; influence; production of effects. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
inoperative: Not operative; not active; producing no effects; as, lawsrenderd inoperative by neglect; inoperative remedies or processes.
inopinable: Not to be expected; inconceivable. [Obs.] "Inopinable,incredible . . . saings." Latimer.
inopinate: Not expected or looked for. [Obs.]
inopportune: Not opportune; inconvenient; unseasonable; as, an inopportuneoccurrence, remark, etc.No visit could have been more inopportune. T. Hook.
inopportunely: Not opportunely; unseasonably; inconveniently.
inopportunity: Want of opportunity; unseasonableness; inconvenience. [R.]
inoppressive: Not oppressive or burdensome. O. Wolcott.
inopulent: Not opulent; not affluent or rich.
inordinacy: The state or quality of being inordinate; excessiveness;immoderateness; as, the inordinacy of love or desire. Jer. Taylor.
inordinate: Not limited to rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular;excessive; immoderate; as, an inordinate love of the world."Inordinate desires." Milton. "Inordinate vanity." Burke.-- In*or"di*nate*ly, adv.-- In*or"di*nate*ness, n.
inordination: Deviation from custom, rule, or right; irregularity;inordinacy. [Obs.] South.Every inordination of religion that is not in defect, is properlycalled superstition. Jer. Taylor.
inorganic: Not organic; without the organs necessary for life; devoid ofan organized structure; unorganized; lifeness; inanimate; as, allchemical compounds are inorganic substances.
inorganical: Inorganic. Locke.
inorganically: In an inorganic manner.
inorganity: Quality of being inorganic. [Obs.] "The inorganity of thesoul." Sir T. Browne.
inorganization: The state of being without organization.
inorganized: Not having organic structure; devoid of organs; inorganic.
inorthography: Deviation from correct orthography; bad spelling. [Obs.]Feltham.
inosculation: The junction or connection of vessels, channels, or passages,so that their contents pass from one to the other; union by mouths orducts; anastomosis; intercommunication; as, inosculation of veins,etc. Ray.
inosinic: Pertaining to, or derived from, inosite; as, inosinic acid.
inosite: A white crystalline substance with a sweet taste, found incertain animal tissues and fluids, particularly in the muscles of theheart and lungs, also in some plants, as in unripe pease, beans,potato sprouts, etc. Called also phaseomannite.
inoxidizable: Incapable of being oxidized; as, gold and platinum areinoxidizable in the air.
inoxidize: To prevent or hinder oxidation, rust, or decay; as, inoxidizingoils or varnishes.
inpatient: A patient who receives lodging and food, as well as treatment,in a hospital or an infirmary; -- distinguished from outpatient.
inquartation: Quartation.
inquiet: To disquiet. [Obs.] Joye.
inquietation: Disturbance. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
inquietness: Unquietness. [Obs.] Joye.
inquietude: Disturbed state; uneasiness either of body or mind;restlessness; disquietude. Sir H. Wotton.
inquiline: A gallfly which deposits its eggs in galls formed by otherinsects.
inquinate: To defile; to pollute; to contaminate; to befoul. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
inquination: A defiling; pollution; stain. [Obs.] Bacon.
inquirable: Capable of being inquired into; subject or liable toinquisition or inquest. Bacon.
inquirance: Inquiry. [Obs.] Latimer.
inquirent: Making inquiry; inquiring; questioning. [Obs.] Shenstone.
inquirer: One who inquires or examines; questioner; investigator. Locke.Expert inquirers after truth. Cowper.
inquiring: Given to inquiry; disposed to investigate causes; curious; as,an inquiring mind.
inquiringly: In an inquiring manner.
inquisible: Admitting judicial inquiry. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
inquisition: A court or tribunal for the examination and punishment ofheretics, fully established by Pope Gregory IX. in 1235. Itsoperations were chiefly confined to Spain, Portugal, and theirdependencies, and a part of Italy.
inquisitional: Relating to inquiry or inquisition; inquisitorial; also, of orpertaining to, or characteristic of, the Inquisition.All the inquisitional rigor . . . executed upon books. Milton.
inquisitionary: Inquisitional.
inquisitive: A person who is inquisitive; one curious in research. Sir W.Temple.
inquisitively: In an inquisitive manner.The occasion that made him afterwards so inquisitively apply himselfto the study of physic. Boyle.
inquisitiveness: The quality or state of being inquisitive; the disposition toseek explanation and information; curiosity to learn what is unknown;esp., uncontrolled and impertinent curiosity.Mr. Boswell, whose inquisitiveness is seconded by great activity,scrambled in at a high window. Johnson.Curiosity in children nature has provided, to remove that ignorancethey were born with; which, without this busy inquisitiveness, willmake them dull. Locke.
inquisitor: One whose official duty it is to examine and inquire, ascoroners, sheriffs, etc. Mozley & W.
inquisitorially: In an inquisitorial manner.
inquisitorious: Making strict inquiry; inquisitorial. [Obs.] Milton.
inquisiturient: Inquisitorial. [Obs.] "Our inquisiturient bishops." Milton.
inracinate: To enroot or implant.
inrail: To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. Hooker.
inregister: To register; to enter, as in a register. [R.] Walsh.
inro: A small closed receptacle or set of receptacles of hardmaterial, as lacquered wood, iron, bronze, or ivory, used by theJapanese to hold medicines, perfumes, and the like, and carried inthe girdle. It is usually secured by a silk cord by which the wearermay grasp it, which cord passes through an ornamental button or knobcalled a netsuke.
inroad: The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes ofhostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid;encroachment.The loss of Shrewsbury exposed all North Wales to the daily inroadsof the enemy. Clarendon.With perpetual inroads to alarm, Though inaccessible, his fatalthrone. Milton.
inroll: See Enroll.
inrunning: The act or the place of entrance; an inlet. Tennyson.
inrush: A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide. G. Eliot.
insabbatati: The Waldenses; -- so called from their peculiary cut or markedsabots, or shoes.
insafety: Insecurity; danger. [Obs.]
insalivation: The mixing of the food with the saliva and other secretions ofthe mouth in eating.
insalubrious: Not salubrious or healthful; unwholesome; as, an insalubriousair or climate.
insalubrity: Unhealthfulness; unwholesomeness; as, the insalubrity of air,water, or climate. Boyle.
insanability: The state of being insanable or incurable; insanableness.
insanable: Not capable of being healed; incurable; irremediable.
insanableness: The state of being insanable; insanability; incurableness.
insanably: In an incurable manner.
insanely: Without reason; madly; foolishly.
insaneness: Insanity; madness.
insaniate: To render unsound; to make mad. [Obs.] Feltham.
insanie: Insanity. [Obs.] Shak.
insanitary: Not sanitary; unhealthy; as, insanitary conditions of drainage.
insanitation: Lack of sanitation; careless or dangerous hygienic conditions.
insanity: Such a mental condition, as, either from the existence ofdelusions, or from incapacity to distinguish between right and wrong,with regard to any matter under action, does away with individualresponsibility.
insapory: Tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
insatiability: The state or quality of being insatiable; insatiableness.Eagerness for increase of possession deluges the soul, and we sinkinto the gulfs of insatiability. Rambler.
insatiable: Not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased; verygreedy; as, an insatiable appetite, thirst, or desire."Insatiable of glory." Milton.
insatiableness: Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased;insatiability.The eye of the covetous hath a more particular insatiableness. Bp.Hall.
insatiably: In an insatiable manner or degree; unappeasably. "Insatiablycovetous." South.
insatiate: Insatiable; as, insatiate thirst.The insatiate greediness of his desires. Shak.And still insatiate, thirsting still for blood. Hook.
insatiately: Insatiably. Sir T. Herbert.
insatiateness: The state of being insatiate.
insatiety: Insatiableness. T. Grander.
insaturable: Not capable of being saturated or satisfied.
inscience: Want of knowledge; ignorance. [Obs.]
inscient: Having little or no knowledge; ignorant; stupid; silly. [R.] N.Bacon.
insconce: See Ensconce.
inscribable: Capable of being inscribed, -- used specif. (Math.) of solidsor plane figures capable of being inscribed in other solids orfigures.
inscribableness: Quality of being inscribable.
inscribe: To draw within so as to meet yet not cut the boundaries.
inscriber: One who inscribes. Pownall.
inscriptible: Capable of being inscribed; inscribable.
inscription: A line of division or intersection; as, the tendinousinscriptions, or intersections, of a muscle.
inscriptive: Bearing inscription; of the character or nature of aninscription.
inscroll: To write on a scroll; to record. [Written also inscrol.] Shak.
inscrutability: The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutableness.
inscrutable: Unsearchable; incapable of being searched into and understoodby inquiry or study; impossible or difficult to be explained oraccounted for satisfactorily; obscure; incomprehensible; as, aninscrutable design or event.'T is not in man To yield a reason for the will of Heaven Which isinscrutable. Beau. & Fl.Waiving a question so inscrutable as this. De Quincey.
inscrutableness: The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutability.
inscrutably: In an inscrutable manner.
insculp: To engrave; to carve; to sculpture. [Obs. & R.] Shak.Which he insculped in two likely stones. Drayton.
insculption: Inscription. [Obs.]
insculpture: An engraving, carving, or inscription. [Obs.]On his gravestone this insculpture. Shak.
insculptured: Engraved. Glover.
inseam: To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix. Pope.
insearch: To make search after; to investigate or examine; to ensearch.[Obs.]
insecable: Incapable of being divided by cutting; indivisible.
insect: One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta.
insecta: One of the classes of Arthropoda, including those that have onepair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and breathe air bymeans of tracheæ, opening by spiracles along the sides of the body.In this sense it includes the Hexapoda, or six-legged insects and theMyriapoda, with numerous legs. See Insect, n.
insectary: A place for keeping living insects.-- In`sec*ta"ri*um, n. Etym
insectation: The act of pursuing; pursuit; harassment; persecution. [Obs.]Sir T. More.
insectator: A pursuer; a persecutor; a censorious critic. [Obs.] Bailey.
insected: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or resembling, an insect.Howell.
insecticide: An agent or preparation for destroying insects; an insectpowder.-- In*sec"ti*ci`dal, a.
insectile: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, insects. Bacon.
insection: A cutting in; incisure; incision.
insectivore: One of the Insectivora.
insectivorous: Feeding or subsisting on insects; carnivorous. The term isapplied
insectologer: An entomologist. [Obs.]
insectology: Entomology. [Obs.]
insecurely: In an insecure manner.
insecureness: Insecurity.
insecution: A following after; close pursuit. [Obs.] Chapman.
inseminate: To sow; to impregnate. [Obs.]
insemination: A sowing. [Obs.]
insensate: Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish.The silence and the calm Of mute, insensate things. Wordsworth.The meddling folly or insensate ambition of statesmen. Buckle.-- In*sen"sate*ly, adv.-- In*sen"sate*ness, n.
insense: To make to understand; to instruct. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
insensibleness: Insensibility. Bp. Hall.
insensibly: In a manner not to be felt or perceived; imperceptibly;gradually.The hills rise insensibly. Addison.
insensitive: Not sensitive; wanting sensation, or wanting acute sensibility.Tillotson. Ruskin.
insensuous: Not sensuous; not pertaining to, affecting, or addressing, thesenses.That intermediate door Betwixt the different planes of sensuous formAnd form insensuous. Mrs. Browning.
insentient: Not sentient; not having perception, or the power ofperception.The . . . attributes of an insentient, inert substance. Reid.But there can be nothing like to this sensation in the rose, becauseit is insentient. Sir W. Hamilton.
inseparability: The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparableness.Locke.
inseparable: Invariably attached to some word, stem, or root; as, theinseparable particle un-.
inseparableness: The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparability. Bp.Burnet.
inseparably: In an inseparable manner or condition; so as not to beseparable. Bacon.And cleaves through life inseparably close. Cowper.
inseparate: Not separate; together; united. Shak.
inseparately: Inseparably. [Obs.] Cranmer.
insert: To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; tocause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scionin a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition; toinsert an advertisement in a newspaper.These words were very weakly inserted where they will be so liable tomisconstruction. Bp. Stillingfleet.
inserted: Situated upon, attached to, or growing out of, some part; --said especially of the parts of the flower; as, the calyx, corolla,and stamens of many flowers are inserted upon the receptacle. Gray.
insertion: The point or part by which a muscle or tendon is attached tothe part to be moved; -- in contradistinction to its origin.Epigynous insertion (Bot.), the insertion of stamens upon the ovary.-- Hypogynous insertion (Bot.), insertion beneath the ovary.
inserve: To be of use to an end; to serve. [Obs.]
inservient: Conducive; instrumental. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
insessor: One of the Insessores. The group includes most of the commonsinging birds.
insessores: An order of birds, formerly established to include the perchingbirds, but now generally regarded as an artificial group.
inset: To infix. [Obs.] Chaucer.
inseverable: Incapable of being severed; indivisible; inseparable. DeQuincey.
inshaded: Marked with different shades. W. Browne.
inshave: A plane for shaving or dressing the concave or inside faces ofbarrel staves.
insheathe: To insert as in a sheath; to sheathe. Hughes.
inshell: To hide in a shell. [Obs.] Shak.
inship: To embark. [Obs.] Shak.
inshore: Being near or moving towards the shore; as, inshore fisheries;inshore currents.-- adv.
inshrine: See Enshrine.
insiccation: The act or process of drying in.
inside: Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as,inside a house, book, bottle, etc.
insidiate: To lie in ambush for. [Obs.] Heywood.
insidiator: One who lies in ambush. [Obs.] Barrow.
insignificancy: Insignificance.
insignificantly: without significance, importance, or effect; to no purpose."Anger insignificantly fierce." Cowper.
insignificative: Not expressing meaning; not significant.
insignment: A token, mark, or explanation. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
insimulate: To accuse. [Obs.] Donne.
insincerely: Without sincerity.
insincerity: The quality of being insincere; want of sincerity, or of beingin reality what one appears to be; dissimulation; hypocritical;deceitfulness; hollowness; untrustworthiness; as, the insincerity ofa professed friend; the insincerity of professions of regard.What men call policy and knowledge of the world, is commonly no otherthing than dissimulation and insincerity. Blair.
insinew: To strengthen, as with sinews; to invigorate. [Obs.]All members of our cause, . . . That are insinewed to this action.Shak.
insinuant: Insinuating; insinuative. [Obs.]
insinuating: Winding, creeping, or flowing in, quietly or stealthily;suggesting; winning favor and confidence insensibly. Milton.His address was courteous, and even insinuating. Prescott.
insinuatingly: By insinuation.
insinuator: One who, or that which, insinuates. De Foe.
insinuatory: Insinuative.
insipid: The quality or state of being insipid; vapidity. "Dryden'slines shine strongly through the insipidity of Tate's." Pope.
insipidly: In an insipid manner; without taste, life, or spirit; flatly.Locke. Sharp.
insipience: Want of intelligence; stupidity; folly. [R.] Blount.
insipient: Wanting wisdom; stupid; foolish. [R.] Clarendon.-- n.
insistence: The quality of insisting, or being urgent or pressing; the actof dwelling upon as of special importance; persistence; urgency.
insistent: See Incumbent.
insistently: In an insistent manner.
insisture: A dwelling or standing on something; fixedness; persistence.[Obs.] Shak.
insitiency: Freedom from thirst. [Obs.]The insitiency of a camel for traveling in deserts. Grew.
insition: The insertion of a scion in a stock; ingraftment. Ray.
insnarer: One who insnares.
insnarl: To make into a snarl or knot; to entangle; to snarl. [Obs.]Cotgrave.
insobriety: Want of sobriety, moderation, or calmness; intemperance;drunkenness.
insociability: The quality of being insociable; want of sociability;unsociability. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
insociably: Unsociably.
insociate: Not associate; without a companion; single; solitary; recluse.[Obs.] "The insociate virgin life." B. Jonson.
insolate: To dry in, or to expose to, the sun's rays; to ripen or prepareby such exposure. Johnson.
insole: The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip ofleather, felt, etc., placed
insolence: To insult. [Obs.] Eikon Basilike.
insolency: Insolence. [R.] Evelyn.
insolently: In an insolent manner.
insolidity: Want of solidity; weakness; as, the insolidity of an argument.[R.] Dr. H. More.
insolubleness: The quality or state of being insoluble; insolubility. Boyle.
insolvent: One who is insolvent; as insolvent debtor; -- in England,before 1861, especially applied to persons not traders. Bouvier.
insomnia: Want of sleep; inability to sleep; wakefulness; sleeplessness.
insomnious: Restless; sleepless. Blount.
insomnolence: Sleeplessness.
insomuch: So; to such a degree; in such wise; -- followed by that or as,and formerly sometimes by both. Cf. Inasmuch.Insomusch as that field is called . . . Aceldama. Acts i. 19.Simonides was an excellent poet, insomuch that he made his fortune byit. L'Estrange.
insonorous: Not clear or melodious.
insooth: In sooth; truly. [Archaic]
insouciance: Carelessness; heedlessness; thoughtlessness; unconcern.
insouciant: Careless; heedless; indifferent; unconcerned. J. S. Mill.
insoul: To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongestaffections on. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.[He] could not but insoul himself in her. Feltham.
inspan: To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle. [South Africa]
inspect: Inspection. [Obs.] Thomson.
inspective: Engaged in inspection; inspecting; involving inspection.
inspector: One who inspects, views, or oversees; one to whom thesupervision of any work is committed; one who makes an official viewor examination, as a military or civil officer; a superintendent; asupervisor; an overseer. Inspector general (Mil.), a staff officer ofan army, whose duties are those of inspection, and embrace everythingrelative to organization, recruiting, discharge, administration,accountability for money and property, instruction, police, anddiscipline.
inspectorate: Inspectorship. [R.]
inspectorial: Of or pertaining to an inspector or to inspection. [R.]
inspectress: A female inspector.
insperse: To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Bailey.
inspersion: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Chapman.
inspeximus: The first word of ancient charters in England, confirming agrant made by a former king; hence, a royal grant.
insphere: To place in, or as in, an orb a sphere. Cf. Ensphere.Bright aërial spirits live insphered In regions mild of calm andserene air. Milton.
inspirable: Capable of being inspired or drawn into the lungs; inhalable;respirable; admitting inspiration. Harvey.
inspiration: A supernatural divine influence on the prophets, apostles, orsacred writers, by which they were qualified to communicate moral orreligious truth with authority; a supernatural influence whichqualifies men to receive and communicate divine truth; also, thetruth communicated.All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Tim. iii. 16.The age which we now live in is not an age of inspiration andimpulses. Sharp.Plenary inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which excludesall defect in the utterance of the inspired message.-- Verbal inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration whichextends to the very words and forms of expression of the divinemessage.
inspirational: Pertaining to inspiration.
inspirationist: One who holds to inspiration.
inspirator: A kind of injector for forcing water by steam. See Injector,n., 2.
inspiratory: Pertaining to, or aiding, inspiration; as, the inspiratorymuscles.
inspirer: One who, or that which, inspirer. "Inspirer of that holyflame." Cowper.
inspiring: Animating; cheering; moving; exhilarating; as, an inspiring orscene.
inspirit: To infuse new life or spirit into; to animate; to encourage; toinvigorate.The courage of Agamemnon is inspirited by the love of empire andambition. Pope.
inspissate: To thicken or bring to greater consistence, as fluids byevaporation.
inspissation: The act or the process of inspissating, or thickening a fluidsubstance, as by evaporation; also, the state of being so thickened.
instable: Not stable; not standing fast or firm; unstable; prone tochange or recede from a purpose; mutable; inconstant.
instableness: Instability; unstableness.
installation: The whole of a system of machines, apparatus, and accessories,when set up and arranged for practical working, as in electriclighting, transmission of power, etc.
instamp: See Enstamp.
instance: To mention as a case or example; to refer to; to cite; as, toinstance a fact. H. Spenser.I shall not instance an abstruse author. Milton.
instancy: Instance; urgency. [Obs.]Those heavenly precepts which our Lord and Savior with so greatinstancy gave. Hooker.
instant: Instantly. [Poetic]Instant he flew with hospitable haste. Pope.
instantaneity: Quality of being instantaneous. Shenstone.
instanter: Immediately; instantly; at once; as, he left instanter.
instar: To stud as with stars. [R.] "A golden throne instarred withgems." J. Barlow.
instate: To set, place, or establish, as in a rank, office, orcondition; to install; to invest; as, to instate a person ingreatness or in favor. Shak.
instaurate: To renew or renovate. [R.]
instauration: Restoration after decay, lapse, or dilapidation; renewal;repair; renovation; renaissance.Some great catastrophe or . . . instauration. T. Burnet.
instaurator: One who renews or restores to a former condition. [R.] Dr. H.More.
instaure: To renew or renovate; to instaurate. [Obs.] Marston.
insteep: To steep or soak; to drench. [R.] "In gore he lay insteeped."Shak.
instigate: To goad or urge forward; to set on; to provoke; to incite; --used chiefly with reference to evil actions; as to instigate one to acrime.He hath only instigated his blackest agents to the very extent oftheir malignity. Bp. Warburton.
instigatingly: Incitingly; temptingly.
instigation: The act of instigating, or the state of being instigated;incitement; esp. to evil or wickedness.The baseness and villainy that . . . the instigation of the devilcould bring the sons of men to. South.
instigator: One who instigates or incites. Burke.
instill: To drop in; to pour in drop by drop; hence, to impartgradually; to infuse slowly; to cause to be imbibed.That starlight dews All silently their tears of love instill. Byron.How hast thou instilled Thy malice into thousands. Milton.
instillation: The of instilling; also, that which is instilled. Johnson.
instillator: An instiller. [R.]
instillatory: Belonging to instillation. [R.]
instiller: One who instills. Skelton.
instillment: The act of instilling; also, that which is instilled. [Writtenalso instilment.]
instimulate: Not to stimulate; to soothe; to quiet. [Obs.] Cheyne.
instimulation: Stimulation.
instinct: Urged or sas, birds instinct with life.The chariot of paternal deity . . . Itself instinct with spirit, butconvoyed By four cherubic shapes. Milton.A noble performance, instinct with sound principle. Brougham.
instinction: Instinct; incitement; inspiration. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
instinctive: Of or pertaining to instinct; derived from, or prompted by,instinct; of the nature of instinct; determined by natural impulse orpropensity; acting or produced without reasoning, deliberation,instruction, or experience; spontaneous. "Instinctive motion."Milton. "Instinctive dread." Cowper.With taste instinctive give Each grace appropriate. Mason.Have we had instinctive intimations of the death of some absentfriends Bp. Hall.
instinctively: In an instinctive manner; by force of instinct; by naturalimpulse.
instinctivity: The quality of being instinctive, or prompted by instinct. [R.]Coleridge.
instipulate: See Exstipulate.
institute: Established; organized; founded. [Obs.]They have but few laws. For to a people so instruct and institute,very few to suffice. Robynson (More's Utopia).
instituter: An institutor. [R.]
institutist: A writer or compiler of, or a commentator on, institutes. [R.]Harvey.
institutively: In conformity with an institution. Harrington.
institutor: A presbyter appointed by the bishop to institute a rector orassistant minister over a parish church.
instop: To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams.[Obs.] Dryden.
instore: To store up; to inclose; to contain. [Obs.] Wyclif.
instratified: Interstratified.
instroke: An inward stroke; specif., in a steam or other engine, a strokein which the piston is moving away from the crank shaft; -- opposedto outstroke.
instructer: See Instructor.
instructible: Capable of being instructed; teachable; docible. Bacon.
instructional: Pertaining to, or promoting, instruction; educational.
instructive: Conveying knowledge; serving to instruct or inform; as,experience furnishes very instructive lessons. Addison.In various talk the instructive hours they past. Pope.-- In*struct"ive*ly, adv.-- In*struct"ive*ness, n.The pregnant instructiveness of the Scripture. Boyle.
instructor: One who instructs; one who imparts knowledge to another; ateacher.
instructress: A woman who instructs; a preceptress; a governess. Johnson.
instrument: A writing, as the means of giving formal expression to someact; a writing expressive of some act, contract, process, as a deed,contract, writ, etc. Burrill.
instrumental: Pertaining to, made by, or prepared for, an instrument, esp. amusical instrument; as, instrumental music, distinguished from vocalmusic. "He defended the use of instrumental music in public worship."Macaulay.Sweet voices mix'd with instrumental sounds. Dryden.
instrumentalism: The view that the sanction of truth is its utility, or thattruth is genuine only in so far as it is a valuable instrument. --In`stru*men"tal*ist, n.
instrumentalist: One who plays upon an instrument of music, as distinguishedfrom a vocalist.
instrumentality: The quality or condition of being instrumental; that which isinstrumental; anything used as a means; medium; agency.The instrumentality of faith in justification. Bp. Burnet.The discovery of gunpowder developed the science of attack anddefense in a new instrumentality. J. H. Newman.
instrumentalness: Usefulness or agency, as means to an end; instrumentality. [R.]Hammond.
instrumentary: Instrumental. [R.]
instrumentist: A performer on a musical instrument; an instrumentalist.
instyle: To style. [Obs.] Crashaw.
insuavity: Want of suavity; unpleasantness. [Obs.] Burton.
insubjection: Want of subjection or obedience; a state of disobedience, as togovernment.
insubmergible: Not capable of being submerged; buoyant. [R.]
insubmission: Want of submission; disobedience; noncompliance.
insubordinate: Not submitting to authority; disobedient; rebellious; mutinous
insubordination: The quality of being insubordinate; disobedience to lawfulauthority.
insubstantial: Unsubstantial; not real or strong. "Insubstantial pageant."[R.] Shak.
insubstantiality: Unsubstantiality; unreality. [R.]
insuccation: The act of soaking or moistening; maceration; solution in thejuice of herbs. [Obs.] Coxe.The medicating and insuccation of seeds. Evelyn.
insuccess: Want of success. [R.] Feltham.
insue: See Ensue, v. i.
insuetude: The state or quality of being unaccustomed; absence of use orhabit.Absurdities are great or small in proportion to custom or insuetude.Landor.
insufferably: In a manner or to a degree beyond endurance; intolerably; as, ablaze insufferably bright; a person insufferably proud.
insufficience: Insufficiency. Shak.
insufficiently: In an insufficient manner or degree; unadequately.
insufflate: To blow upon; to breath upon or into; to use insufflation upon.
insufflation: The act of breathing on or into anything; especially:(a) (R. C. Ch.) The breathing upon a person in the sacrament ofbaptism to symbolize the inspiration of a new spiritual life.(b) (Med.) The act of blowing (a gas, powder, or vapor) into anycavity of the body.
insuitable: Unsuitable. [Obs.] -- In*suit`a*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]
insular: An islander. [R.] Berkeley.
insularly: In an insular manner.
insulary: Insular. [Obs.] Howell.
insulate: To prevent the transfer o Insulating stool (Elec.), a stoolwith legs of glass or some other nonconductor of electricity, usedfor insulating a person or any object placed upon it.
insulated: Separated from other bodies by means of nonconductors of heator electricity.
insulation: The act of separating a body from others by nonconductors, soas to prevent the transfer of electricity or of heat; also, the stateof a body so separated.
insulator: The substance or body that insulates; a nonconductor.
insulite: An insulating material, usually some variety of compressedcellulose, made of sawdust, paper pulp, cotton waste, etc.
insulous: Abounding in islands. [R.]
insulse: Insipid; dull; stupid. [Obs.] Milton.
insulsity: Insipidity; stupidity; dullness. [Obs.]The insulsity of mortal tongues. Milton.
insultable: Capable of being insulted or affronted. [R.] Emerson.
insulter: One who insults. Shak.
insulting: Containing, or characterized by, insult or abuse; tending toinsult or affront; as, insulting language, treatment, etc.-- In*sult"ing*ly, adv.
insultment: Insolent treatment; insult. [Obs.] "My speech of insultmentended." Shak.
insume: To take in; to absorb. [Obs.]
insuperability: The quality or state of being insuperable; insuperableness.
insuperable: Incapable of being passed over or surmounted; insurmountable;as, insuperable difficulties.And middle natures, how they long to join, Yet never pass theinsuperable line Pope.The difficulty is enhanced, or is . . . insuperable. I. Taylor.
insupportable: Incapable of being supported or borne; unendurable;insufferable; intolerable; as, insupportable burdens; insupportablepain.-- In`sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.-- In`sup*port"a*bly, adv.
insupposable: Incapable of being supposed; not supposable; inconceivable.
insuppressible: That can not be suppressed or concealed; irrepressible. Young.-- In`sup*press"i*bly, adv.
insuppressive: Insuppressible. [Obs.] "The insuppressive mettle of ourspirits." Shak.
insurable: Capable of being insured against loss, damage, death, etc.;proper to be insured.The French law annuls the latter policies so far as they exceed theinsurable interest which remained in the insured at the time of thesubscription thereof. Walsh.
insurancer: One who effects insurance; an insurer; an underwriter. [Obs.]Dryden.hose bold insurancers of deathless fame. Blair.
insurant: The person insured. Champness.
insure: To underwrite; to make insurance; as, a company insures atthree per cent.
insurer: One who, or that which, insures; the person or company thatcontracts to indemnify losses for a premium; an underwriter.
insurgent: Rising in opposition to civil or political authority, oragainst an established government; insubordinate; rebellious. "Theinsurgent provinces." Motley.
insurmountability: The state or quality of being insurmountable.
insurmountable: Incapable of being passed over, surmounted, or overcome;insuperable; as, insurmountable difficulty or obstacle. Locke.Hope thinks nothing difficult; despair tells us that difficulty isinsurmountable. I. Watts.
insurmountableness: The state or quality of being insurmountable;insurmountability.
insurmountably: In a manner or to a degree not to be overcome.
insurrectional: Pertaining to insurrection; consisting in insurrection.
insurrectionary: Pertaining to, or characterized by, insurrection; rebellious;seditious.Their murderous insurrectionary system. Burke.
insurrectionist: One who favors, or takes part in, insurrection; an insurgent.
insusceptibility: Want of susceptibility, or of capacity to feel or perceive.
insusceptible: Not susceptible; not capable of being moved, affected, orimpressed; that can not feel, receive, or admit; as, a limbinsusceptible of pain; a heart insusceptible of pity; a mindinsusceptible to flattery.-- In`sus*cep`ti*bly adv.
insusceptive: Not susceptive or susceptible. [R.] Rambler.
insusurration: The act of whispering into something. [Obs.] Johnson.
inswathe: To wrap up; to infold; to swathe.Inswathed sometimes in wandering mist. Tennyson.
inswept: Narrowed at the forward end; -- said of an automobile framewhen the side members are closer together at the forward end than atthe rear.
intact: Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or thelike; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire. Buckle.When all external differences have passed away, one element remainsintact, unchanged, -- the everlasting basis of our common nature, thehuman soul. F. W. Robertson.
intagliated: Engraved in intaglio; as, an intagliated stone. T. Warton.
intaglio: A cutting or engraving; a figure cut into something, as a gem,so as to make a design depressed below the surface of the material;hence, anything so carved or impressed, as a gem, matrix, etc.; --opposed to cameo. Also used adjectively.
intail: See Entail, v. t.
intaminated: Uncontaminated. [Obs.] Wood.
intangibility: The quality or state of being intangible; intangibleness.
intangible: Not tangible; incapable of being touched; not perceptible tothe touch; impalpable; imperceptible. Bp. Wilkins.A corporation is an artificial, invisible, intangible being.Marshall.-- In*tan"gi*ble*ness, n.-- In*tan"gi*bly, adv.
intangle: See Entangle.
intastable: Incapable of being tasted; tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Grew.
integer: A complete entity; a whole number, in contradistinction to afraction or a mixed number. Complex integer (Theory of Numbers), anexpression of the form a + bsq. root-1, where a and b are realintegers.
integrability: The quality of being integrable.
integrable: Capable of being integrated.
integral: An expression which, being differentiated, will produce a givendifferential. See differential Differential, and Integration. Cf.Fluent. Elliptic integral, one of an important class of integrals,occurring in the higher mathematics; -- so called because one of theintegrals expresses the length of an arc of an ellipse.
integrality: Entireness. [Obs.] Whitaker.
integrally: In an integral manner; wholly; completely; also, byintegration.
integrant: Making part of a whole; necessary to constitute an entirething; integral. Boyle.All these are integrant parts of the republic. Burke.Integrant parts, or particles, of bodies, those smaller particlesinto which a body may be reduced without loss of its originalconstitution, as by mechanical division.
integrate: To subject to the operation of integration; to find theintegral of.
integration: The operation of finding the primitive function which has agiven function for its differential coefficient. See Integral.
integrator: That which integrates; esp., an instrument by means of whichthe area of a figure can be measured directly, or its moment ofinertia, or statical moment, etc., be determined.
integropallial: Having the pallial line entire, or without a sinus, as certainbivalve shells.
integumation: That part of physiology which treats of the integuments ofanimals and plants.
integument: That which naturally invests or covers another thing, as thetesta or the tegmen of a seed; specifically (Anat.), a covering whichinvests the body, as the skin, or a membrane that invests aparticular.
integumentary: Belonging to, or composed of, integuments.
integumentation: The act or process of covering with integuments; the state ormanner of being thus covered.
intellect: The part or faculty of the human soul by which it knows, asdistinguished from the power to feel and to will; sometimes, thecapacity for higher forms of knowledge, as distinguished from thepower to perceive objects in their relations; the power to judge andcomprehend; the thinking faculty; the understanding.
intellected: Endowed with intellect; having intellectual powers orcapacities. [R.]In body, and in bristles, they became As swine, yet intellected asbefore. Cowper.
intellection: A mental act or process; especially
intellectively: In an intellective manner. [R.] "Not intellectivelly to write."Warner.
intellectual: The intellect or understanding; mental powers or faculties.Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh, Whose higherintellectual more I shun. Milton.I kept her intellectuals in a state of exercise. De Quincey.
intellectuality: Intellectual powers; possession of intellect; quality of beingintellectual.
intellectually: In an intellectual manner.
intelligencer: One who, or that which, sends or conveys intelligence or news;a messenger.All the intriguers in foreign politics, all the spies, and all theintelligencers . . . acted solely upon that principle. Burke.
intelligencing: Informing; giving information; talebearing. [Obs.] Shak.That sad intelligencing tyrant. Milton.
intelligency: Intelligence. [Obs.] Evelyn.
intelligentiary: One who gives information; an intelligencer. [Obs.] Holinshed.
intelligently: In an intelligent manner; with intelligence.
intelligibility: The quality or state of being intelligible; clearness;perspicuity; definiteness.
intelligible: Capable of being understood or comprehended; as, anintelligible account or description; intelligible pronunciation,writing, etc.The intelligible forms of ancient poets. Coleridge.
intelligibleness: The quality or state of being intelligible; intelligibility.Locke.
intelligibly: In an intelligible manner; so as to be understood; clearly;plainly; as, to write or speak intelligibly.
intemerateness: The state of being unpolluted; purity. [Obs.] Donne.
intemperament: A bad state; as, the intemperament of an ulcerated part. [R.]Harvey.
intemperancy: Intemperance. [Obs.]
intemperant: Intemperate. [Obs.]Such as be intemperant, that is, followers of their naughty appetitesand lusts. Udall.
intemperate: To disorder. [Obs.]
intemperately: In an intemperate manner; immoderately; excessively; withoutrestraint.The people . . . who behaved very unwisely and intemperately on thatoccasion. Burke.
intemperature: Intemperateness. [Obs.] Boyle.
intempestive: Out of season; untimely. [Obs.] Burton.Intempestive bashfulness gets nothing. Hales.
intempestively: Unseasonably. [Obs.]
intempestivity: Unseasonableness; untimeliness. [Obs.] Hales.
intenable: Incapable of being held; untenable; not defensible; as, anintenable opinion; an intenable fortress. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.
intendant: One who has the charge, direction, or management of some publicbusiness; a superintendent; as, an intendant of marine; an intendantof finance.
intended: One with whom marriage is designed; one who is betrothed; anaffianced lover.If it were not that I might appear to disparage his intended, . . . Iwould add that to me she seems to be throwing herself away. Dickens.
intendedly: Intentionally. [R.] Milton.
intendent: See Intendant, n. [Obs.]
intender: One who intends. Feltham.
intendiment: Attention; consideration; knowledge; understanding. [Obs.]Spenser.
intendment: The true meaning, understanding, or intention of a law, or ofany legal instrument.
intenerate: To make tender or sensitive; to soften.
inteneration: The act or process of intenerating, or the state of beingintenerated; softening. [R.] Bacon.
intenible: Incapable of holding or containing. [Obs.]This captious and intenible sieve. Shak.
intensate: To intensify. [R.] Emerson.
intensation: The act or process of intensifying; intensification; climax.[R.] Carlyle.
intensative: Adding intensity; intensifying.
intenseness: The state or quality of being intense; intensity; as, theintenseness of heat or cold; the intenseness of study or thought.
intensification: The act or process of intensifying, or of making more intense.
intensifier: One who or that which intensifies or strengthens; inphotography, an agent used to intensify the lights or shadows of apicture.
intensify: To render more intense; as, to intensify heat or cold; tointensify colors; to intensify a photographic negative; to intensifyanimosity. Bacon.How piercing is the sting of pride By want embittered andintensified. Longfellow.
intension: The collective attributes, qualities, or marks that make up acomplex general notion; the comprehension, content, or connotation; -- opposed to extension, extent, or sphere.This law is, that the intension of our knowledge is in the inverseratio of its extension. Sir W. Hamilton.
intensitive: Increasing the force or intensity of; intensive; as, theintensitive words of a sentence. H. Sweet.
intensity: The amount or degree of energy with which a force operates or acause acts; effectiveness, as estimated by results produced.
intensive: Serving to give force or emphasis; as, an intensive verb orpreposition.
intensively: In an intensive manner; by increase of degree. Abp. Bramhall.
intensiveness: The quality or state of being intensive; intensity. Sir M.Hale.
intent: The act of turning the mind toward an object; hence, a design;a purpose; intention; meaning; drift; aim.Be thy intents wicked or charitable. Shak.The principal intent of Scripture is to deliver the Hooker.To all intents, and purposes, in all applications or senses;practically; really; virtually; essentially. "He was miserable to allintents and purpose." L'Estrange.
intentation: Intention. [Obs.]
intention: Any mental apprehension of an object. First intention (Logic),a conception of a thing formed by the first or direct application ofthe mind to the individual object; an idea or image; as, man, stone.-- Second intention (Logic), a conception generalized from firstintuition or apprehension already formed by the mind; an abstractnotion; especially, a classified notion, as species, genus,whiteness.-- To heal by the first intention (Surg.), to cicatrize, as a wound,without suppuration.-- To heal by the second intention (Surg.), to unite aftersuppuration.
intentional: Done by intention or design; intended; designed; as, the actwas intentional, not accidental.
intentionality: The quality or state of being intentional; purpose; design.Coleridge.
intentionally: In an intentional manner; with intention; by design; ofpurpose.
intentioned: Having designs; -- chiefly used in composition; as, well-intentioned, having good designs; ill-intentioned, having illdesigns.
intentive: Attentive; intent. [Obs.] Spenser.
intentively: Attentively; closely. [Obs.] "Intentively to observe." Holland.
intentiveness: Closeness of attention or application of mind; attentiveness.[Obs.] W. Montagu.
intently: In an intent manner; as, the eyes intently fixed.
intentness: The state or quality of being intent; close application;attention.Extreme solicitude or intentness upon business. South.
inter: To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, tointer a dead body. Shak.
inter-: A prefix signifying among, between, amid; as, interact,interarticular, intermit.
interact: A short act or piece between others, as in a play; aninterlude; hence, intermediate employment or time. Chesterfield.
interadditive: Added or placed between the parts of another thing, as a clauseinserted parenthetically in a sentence.
interagency: Intermediate agency.
interagent: An intermediate agent.
interall: Entrail or inside. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
interalveolar: Between alveoli; as, the interalveolar septa between adjacentair cells in the lungs.
interambulacral: Of or pertaining to the interambulacra.
interambulacrum: In echinoderms, one of the areas or zones intervening betweentwo ambulacra. See Illust. of Ambulacrum.
interamnian: Situated between rivers. [R.] "An interamnian country." J.Bryant.
interanimate: To animate or inspire mutually. [Obs.] Donne.
interarboration: The interweaving of branches of trees. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
interarticular: Situated between joints or articulations; as, interarticularcartilages and ligaments.
interatomic: Between atoms; situated, or acting, between the atoms ofbodies; as, interatomic forces.
interaulic: Existing between royal courts. [R.] "Interaulic politics."Motley.
interauricular: Between the auricles; as, the interauricular partition of theheart.
interaxal: Situated in an interaxis. Gwilt.
interaxillary: Situated within or between the axils of leaves.
interaxis: The space between two axes. See Axis, 6.The doors, windows, niches, and the like, are then placed centrallyin the interaxes. Gwilt.
interbastation: Patchwork. [Obs.] Dr. J. Smith.
interbrachial: Between the arms.
interbrain: See Thalamencephalon.
interbranchial: Between the branchiæ.
interbreed: To breed by crossing different stocks of animals or plants.
intercalar: Intercalary.
intercalary: Inserted or introduced among others in the calendar; as, anintercalary month, day, etc.; -- now applied particularly to the oddday (Feb. 29) inserted in the calendar of leap year. See Bissextile,n.
intercalate: To insert, as a day or other portion of time, in a calendar.
intercalation: The insertion of a day, or other portion of time, in acalendar.
intercarotid: Situated between the external and internal carotid arteries;as, an intercarotid ganglion.
intercarpal: Between the carpal bone; as, intercarpal articulations,ligaments.
intercartilaginous: Within cartilage; endochondral; as, intercartilaginousossification.
intercavernous: Between the cavernous sinuses; as, the intercavernous sinusesconnecting the cavernous sinuses at the base of the brain.
intercede: To be, to come, or to pass, between; to separate. [Obs.] Sir I.Newton.
intercedence: The act of interceding; intercession; intervention. [R.] Bp.Reynolds.
intercedent: Passing between; mediating; pleading. [R.] --In`ter*ced"ent*ly, adv.
interceder: One who intercedes; an intercessor; a mediator. Johnson.
intercellular: Lying between cells or cellules; as, intercellular substance,space, or fluids; intercellular blood channels.
intercentral: Between centers. Intercentral nerves (Physiol.), those nerveswhich transmit impulses between nerve centers, as opposed toperipheral fibers, which convey impulses between peripheral parts andnerve centers.
intercentrum: The median of the three elements composing the centra of thevertebræ in some fossil batrachians.
intercept: To include between; as, that part of the intercepted betweenthe points A and B.
intercepter: One who, or that which, intercepts. Shak.
interception: The act of intercepting; as, interception of a letter;interception of the enemy.
interceptive: Intercepting or tending to intercept.
intercession: The act of interceding; mediation; interposition betweenparties at variance, with a view to reconcilation; prayer, petition,or entreaty in favor of, or (less often) against, another or others.But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings whichcan not be uttered. Rom. viii. 26.
intercessional: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by,intercession or entreaty.
intercessionate: To entreat. [Obs.]
intercessor: A bishop, who, during a vacancy of the see, administers thebishopric till a successor is installed.
intercessorial: Intercessory.
intercessory: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by,intercession; interceding; as, intercessory prayer.
interchain: To link together; to unite closely or firmly, as by a chain.Two bosoms interchained with an oath. Shak.
interchange: To make an interchange; to alternate. Sir P. Sidney.
interchangeability: The state or quality of being interchangeable;interchangeableness.
interchangement: Mutual transfer; exchange. [Obs.] Shak.
interchapter: An intervening or inserted chapter.
intercidence: The act or state of coming or falling between; occurrence;incident. [Obs.] Holland.
intercident: Falling or coming between; happening accidentally. [Obs.]Boyle.
intercipient: Intercepting; stopping.-- n.
intercision: A cutting off, through, or asunder; interruption. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
intercitizenship: The mutual right to civic privileges, in the different States.Bancroft.
interclavicle: See Episternum.
interclose: To shut in; to inclose. [Obs.]
intercloud: To cloud. [R.] Daniel.
interclude: To shut off or out from a place or course, by somethingintervening; to intercept; to cut off; to interrupt. Mitford.So all passage of external air into the receiver may be intercluded.Boyle.
interclusion: Interception; a stopping
intercollegiate: Existing or carried on between colleges or universities; as,intercollegiate relations, rivalry, games, etc.
intercolline: Situated between hills; -- applied especially to valleys lyingbetween volcanic cones.
intercolonial: Between or among colonies; pertaining to the intercourse ormutual relations of colonies; as, intercolonial trade.-- In`ter*co*lo"ni*al*ly, adv.
intercolumnar: Between columns or pillars; as, the intercolumnar fibers ofPoupart's ligament; an intercolumnar statue.
intercolumniation: The clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom oftheir shafts. Gwilt.
intercombat: Combat. [Obs.] Daniel.
intercoming: The act of coming between; intervention; interference. [Obs.]
intercommon: To graze cattle promiscuously in the commons of each other, asthe inhabitants of adjoining townships, manors, etc.
intercommonage: The right or privilege of intercommoning.
intercommunicable: Capable of being mutually communicated.
intercommunicate: To communicate mutually; to hold mutual communication.
intercommunication: Mutual communication. Owen.
intercommunion: Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities. Faber.
intercommunity: Intercommunication; community of possessions, religion, etc.In consequence of that intercommunity of paganism . . . one nationadopted the gods of another. Bp. Warburton.
intercomparison: Mutual comparison of corresponding parts.
interconnect: To join together.
interconnection: Connection between; mutual connection.
intercontinental: Between or among continents; subsisting or carried on betweencontinents; as, intercontinental relations or commerce.
interconvertible: Convertible the one into the other; as, coin and bank notes areinterconvertible.
intercostal: Between the ribs; pertaining to, or produced by, the partsbetween the ribs; as, intercostal respiration, in which the chest isalternately enlarged and contracted by the intercostal muscles.
intercourse: AThis sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles. Milton.Sexual intercourse, sexual or carnal connection; coition.
intercrop: To cultivate by planting simultaneous crops in alternate rows;as, to intercrop an orchard. Also, to use for catch crops at seasonswhen the ground is not covered by crops of the regular rotation.
intercross: To fertilize by the impregnation of one species or variety byanother; to impregnate by a different species or variety.
intercrural: Between crura; -- applied especially to the interneural platesin the vertebral column of many cartilaginous fishes.
intercur: To intervene; to come or occur in the meantime. [Obs.] Shelton.
intercurrence: A passing or running between; occurrence. Boyle.
intercurrent: Something intervening. Holland.
intercutaneous: Subcutaneous.
interdash: To dash between or among; to intersperse. Cowper.
interdeal: To intrigue. [Obs.] Daniel.
interdenominational: Occurring between or among, or common to, differentdenominations; as, interdenominational fellowship or belief.
interdental: Formed between the upper and lower teeth; as, interdentalconsonants.
interdentil: The space between two dentils. Gwilt.
interdependence: Mutual dependence. "The interdependence of virtue andknowledge." M. Arnold.
interdependency: Mutual dependence; as, interdependency of interests. DeQuincey.
interdependent: Mutually dependent.
interdict: To lay under an interdict; to cut off from the enjoyment ofreligious privileges, as a city, a church, an individual.An archbishop may not only excommunicate and interdict hissuffragans, but his vicar general may do the same. Ayliffe.
interdiction: The act of interdicting; prohibition; prohibiting decree;curse; interdict.The truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction standsaccurst. Shak.
interdictive: Having the power to prohibit; as, an interdictive sentence.Milton.
interdictory: Belonging to an interdiction; prohibitory.
interdigital: Between the fingers or toes; as, interdigital space.
interdigitate: To interweave. [R.]
interdigitation: The state of interdigitating; interdigital space. Owen.
interdome: The open space between the inner and outer shells of a dome orcupola of masonry.
interduce: An intertie.
interepimeral: Between the epimeral plates of insects and crustaceans.
interequinoctial: Coming between the equinoxes.Summer and winter I have called interequinoctial intervals. F.Balfour.
interess: To interest or affect. [Obs.] Hooker.
interesse: Interest. [Obs.] Spenser.
interestedness: The state or quality of being interested; selfishness.Richardson.
interesting: Engaging the attention; exciting, or adapted to excite,interest, curiosity, or emotion; as, an interesting story;interesting news. Cowper.
interestingly: In an interesting manner.
interestingness: The condition or quality of being interesting. A. Smith.
interfacial: Included between two plane surfaces or faces; as, aninterfacial angle.
interfascicular: Between fascicles or bundles; as, the interfascicular spaces ofconnective tissue.
interferant: One of the contestants in interference before the PatentOffice. [U.S.]
interfere: To act reciprocally, so as to augment, diminish, or otherwiseaffect one another; -- said of waves, rays of light, heat, etc. SeeInterference, 2.
interference: The mutual influence, under certain conditions, of two streamsof light, or series of pulsations of sound, or, generally, two wavesor vibrations of any kind, producing certain characteristicphenomena, as colored fringes, dark bands, or darkness, in the caseof light, silence or increased intensity in sounds; neutralization orsuperposition of waves generally.
interferer: One who interferes.
interferingly: By or with interference.
interferometer: An instrument for measuring small movements, distances, ordisplacements by means of the interference of two beams of light; --called also refractometer.
interflow: To flow in. [R.] Holland.
interfolded: Intertwined; interlocked; clasped together. Longfellow.
interfoliaceous: At the same node with opposite or whorled leaves, but occupyinga position between their places of attachment.
interfoliate: To interleave. [Obs.] Evelyn.
interfollicular: Between follicles; as, the interfollicular septa in a lymphaticgland.
interfretted: Interlaced; linked together; -- said of charges or bearings.See Fretted.
interfulgent: Shining between.
interfusion: The act of interfusing, or the state of being interfused.Coleridge.
interganglionic: Between and uniting the nervous ganglions; as, interganglioniccords.
interglobular: Between globules; -- applied esp. to certain small spaces,surrounded by minute globules, in dentine.
intergrave: To grave or carve between; to engrave in the alternatesections.The work itself of the bases, was intergraven. 3 Kings vii. 28 (Douayversion. )
interhyal: Of or pertaining to a segment sometimes present at the proximalend of the hyoidean arch.-- n.
interim: A name given to each of three compromises made by the emperorCharles V. of Germany for the sake of harmonizing the connectingopinions of Protestants and Catholics.
interiority: State of being interior.
interiorly: Internally; inwardly.
interjacent: Lying or being between or among; intervening; as, interjacentisles. Sir W. Raleigh.
interjaculate: To ejaculate parenthetically. [R.] Thackeray.
interjangle: To make a dissonant, discordant noise one with another; to talkor chatter noisily. [R.] Daniel.
interject: To throw in between; to insert; to interpose. Sir H. Wotton.
interjection: A word or form of speech thrown in to express emotion orfeeling, as O! Alas! Ha ha! Begone! etc. Compare Exclamation.An interjection implies a meaning which it would require a wholegrammatical sentence to expound, and it may be regarded as therudiment of such a sentence. But it is a confusion of thought to rankit among the parts of speech. Earle.How now! interjections Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha,he! Shak.
interjectionalize: To convert into, or to use as, an interjection. Earle.
interjectionally: In an interjectional manner. G. Eliot.
interjectionary: Interjectional.
interjoin: To join mutually; to unite. [R.] Shak.
interjunction: A mutual joining. [R.]
interknit: To knit together; to unite closely; to intertwine.
interknow: To know mutually. [Obs.]
interknowledge: Mutual knowledge or acquaintance. [Obs.] Bacon.
interlace: To unite, as by lacing together; to insert or interpose onething within another; to intertwine; to interweave.Severed into stripes That interlaced each other. Cowper.The epic way is every where interlaced with dialogue. Dryden.Interlacing arches (Arch.), arches, usually circular, so constructedthat their archivolts intersect and seem to be interlaced.
interlacement: The act of interlacing, or the state of being interlaced; also,that which is interlaced.
interlaminated: Placed between, or containing, laminæ or plates.
interlamination: The state of being interlaminated.
interlapse: The lapse or interval of time between two events. [R.] Harvey.
interlay: To lay or place among or between. Daniel.
interleaf: A leaf inserted between other leaves; a blank leaf inserted, asin a book.
interleave: To insert a leaf or leaves in; to bind with blank leavesinserted between the others; as, to interleave a book.
interlibel: To libel mutually.
interline: Contained between lines; written or inserted between linesalready written or printed; containing interlineations; as, aninterlinear manuscript, translation, etc.-- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv.
interlineary: Interlinear.-- n.
interlining: Correction or alteration by writing between the lines;interlineation. Bp. Burnet.
interlink: To link together; to join, as one chain to another. Dryden.
interlobar: Between lobes; as, the interlobar notch of the liver; theinterlobar ducts of a gland.
interlobular: Between lobules; as, the interlobular branches of the portalvein.
interlocation: A placing or coming between; interposition.
interlock: To unite, embrace, communicate with, or flow into, one another;to be connected in one system; to lock into one another; to interlacefirmly.
interlocution: An intermediate act or decree before final decision. Ayliffe.
interlocutor: An interlocutory judgment or sentence.
interlocutory: Intermediate; not final or definitive; made or done during theprogress of an action.
interlocutrice: A female interlocutor.
interlope: To run between parties and intercept without right theadvantage that one should gain from the other; to traffic without aproper license; to intrude; to forestall others; to intermeddle.
interloper: One who interlopes; one who interlopes; one who unlawfullyintrudes upon a property, a station, or an office; one who interfereswrongfully or officiously.The untrained man, . . . the interloper as to the professions. I.Taylor.
interlucate: To let in light upon, as by cutting away branches. [Obs.]
interlucation: Act of thinning a wood to let in light. [Obs.] Evelyn.
interlucent: Shining between.
interlude: A short piece of instrumental music played between the parts ofa song or cantata, or the acts of a drama; especially, in churchmusic, a short passage played by the organist between the stanzas ofa hymn, or in German chorals after each line.
interluded: Inserted in the manner of an interlude; having or containinginterludes.
interluder: An actor who performs in an interlude. B. Jonson.
interluency: A flowing between; intervening water. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
intermandibular: Between the mandibles; interramal; as, the intermandibularspace.
intermarriage: Connection by marriage; reciprocal marriage; giving and takingin marriage, as between two families, tribes, castes, or nations.
intermarry: To become connected by marriage between their members; to giveand take mutually in marriage; -- said of families, ranks, castes,etc.About the middle of the fourth century from the building of Rome, itwas declared lawful for nobles and plebeians to intermarry. Swift.
intermaxilla: See Premaxilla.
intermaxillary: An intermaxilla.
intermean: Something done in the meantime; interlude. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
intermeation: A flowing between. [Obs.] Bailey.
intermeddle: To meddle with the affairs of others; to meddle officiously; tointerpose or interfere improperly; to mix or meddle with.The practice of Spain hath been, by war and by conditions of treaty,to intermeddle with foreign states. Bacon.
intermeddler: One who meddles with, or intrudes into, the affairs of others.Swift.
intermeddlesome: Inclined or disposed to intermeddle.-- In`ter*med"dle*some*ness, n.
intermeddling: The act of improperly interfering. Burke.
intermede: A short musical dramatic piece, of a light and pleasing,sometimes a burlesque, character; an interlude introduced between theacts of a play or an opera.
intermediacy: Interposition; intervention. Derham.
intermediae: The middle pair of tail feathers, or middle rectrices.
intermedial: Lying between; intervening; intermediate. "Intermedial colors."Evelyn.
intermedian: Intermediate. [Obs.]
intermediary: Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate; as, anintermediary project. Intermediary amputation (Surg.), an amputationfor injury, performed after inflammation has set in.
intermediate: Lying or being in the middle place or degree, or between twoextremes; coming or done between; intervening; interposed;interjacent; as, an intermediate space or time; intermediate colors.Intermediate state (Theol.), the state or condition of the soulbetween the death and the resurrection of the body.-- Intermediate terms (Math.), the terms of a progression or seriesbetween the first and the last (which are called the extremes); themeans.-- Intermediate tie. (Arch.) Same as Intertie.
intermediately: In an intermediate manner; by way of intervention.
intermediation: The act of coming between; intervention; interposition. Burke.
intermediator: A mediator.
intermedious: Intermediate. [R.] Cudworth.
intermedium: The bone or cartilage between the radiale and ulnare in thecarpus, and between the tibiale and fibulare in the tarsus. Itcorresponds to the lunar in the carpus, and to a part of theastragalus in the tarsus of man and most mammals.
intermell: To intermeddle; to intermix. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.
intermembral: Between members or limbs; as, intermembral homology, thecorrespondence of the limbs with each other.
intermembranous: Within or beneath a membrane; as, intermembranous ossification.
interment: The act or ceremony of depositing a dead body in the earth;burial; sepulture; inhumation. T. Warton.
intermention: To mention among other things, or casually or incidentally.[Obs.]
intermesenteric: Within the mesentery; as, the intermesenteric, or aortic,plexus.
intermetacarpal: Between the metacarpal bones.
intermetatarsal: Between the metatarsal bones.
intermezzo: An interlude; an intermede. See Intermede.
intermicate: To flash or shine between or among. [R.] Blount.
intermication: A shining between or among. [R.] Smart.
intermigration: Reciprocal migration; interchange of dwelling place bymigration. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
interminable: Without termination; admitting no limit; boundless; endless;wearisomely protracted; as, interminable space or duration;interminable sufferings.That wild interminable waste of waves. Grainger.
interminableness: The state of being endless.
interminably: Without end or limit.
interminate: Endless; as, interminate sleep. Chapman.
interminated: Interminable; interminate; endless; unending. [Obs.] Akenside.
intermination: A menace or threat. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
intermine: To intersect or penetrate with mines. [Obs.] Drayton.
intermingle: To mingle or mix together; to intermix. Hooker.
intermise: Interference; interposition. [Obs.] Bacon.
intermission: The temporary cessation or subsidence of a fever; the space oftime between the paroxysms of a disease. Intermission is an entirecessation, as distinguished from remission, or abatement of fever.
intermissive: Having temporary cessations; not continual; intermittent."Intermissive miseries." Shak. "Intermissive wars." Howell.
intermit: To cause to cease for a time, or at intervals; to interrupt; tosuspend.Pray to the gods to intermit the plague. Shak.
intermittence: Act or state of intermitting; intermission. Tyndall.
intermittent: Coming and going at intervals; alternating; recurrent;periodic; as, an intermittent fever. Boyle. Intermittent fever(Med.), a disease with fever which recurs at certain intervals; --applied particularly to fever and ague. See Fever.-- Intermittent gearing (Mach.), gearing which receives, orproduces, intermittent motion.-- Intermittent springs, springs which flow at intervals, notapparently dependent upon rain or drought. They probably owe theirintermittent action to their being connected with natural reservoirsin hills or mountains by passages having the form of a siphon, thewater beginning to flow when it has accumulated so as to fill theupper part of the siphon, and ceasing when, by running through it, ithas fallen below the orifice of the upper part of the siphon in thereservoir.
intermittently: With intermissions; in an intermittent manner; intermittingly.
intermittingly: With intermissions; at intervals. W. Montagu.
intermix: To mix together; to intermingle.In yonder spring of roses, intermixed With myrtle, find what toredress till noon. Milton.
intermixedly: In a mixed manner.
intermobility: Capacity of things to move among each other; as, theintermobility of fluid particles.
intermodillion: The space between two modillions.
intermontane: Between mountains; as, intermontane soil.
intermundane: Being, between worlds or orbs. [R.] "Intermundane spaces."Locke.
intermundian: Intermundane. [Obs.]
intermural: Lying between walls; inclosed by walls.
intermure: To wall in; to inclose. [Obs.] Ford.
intermuscular: Between muscles; as, intermuscular septa.
intermutation: Interchange; mutual or reciprocal change.
intermutual: Mutual. [Obs.] Daniel.-- In`ter*mu"tu*al*ly, adv. [Obs.]
intern: Internal. [Obs.] Howell.
internal: Lying toward the mesial plane; mesial. Internal angle (Geom.),an interior angle. See under Interior.-- Internal gear (Mach.), a gear in which the teeth project inwardfrom the rim instead of outward.
internality: The state of being internal or within; interiority.
internasal: Between the nasal cavities; as, the internasal cartilage.
internationalize: To make international; to cause to affect the mutual relationsof two or more nations; as, to internationalize a principle of law,or a philanthropic enterprise.
internationally: In an international manner; from an international point ofview.
interne: That which is within; the interior. [Poetic] Mrs. Browning.
internecine: Involving, or accompanied by, mutual slaughter; mutuallydestructive.Internecine quarrels, horrible tumults, stain the streets with blood.Motley.
internecion: Mutual slaughter or destruction; massacre. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
internecive: Internecine. [R.] Sydney Smith.
internection: Intimate connection. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
interneural: Between the neural arches or neural spines.-- n.
internity: State of being within; interiority. [R.] H. Brooke.
internment: Confinement within narrow limits, -- as of foreign troops, tothe interior of a country.
internodal: Of or pertaining to internodes; intervening between nodes orjoints.
internode: The space between two nodes or points of the stem from whichthe leaves properly arise. H. Spenser.
internodial: Internodal. [R.]
internuncial: Communicating or transmitting impressions between differentparts of the body; -- said of the nervous system. Carpenter.
internunciess: A female messenger. [R.]
internuncioship: The office or function of an internuncio. Richardson.
internuncius: Internuncio.
interoceanic: Between oceans; connecting oceans; as, interoceaniccommunication; an interoceanic canal.
interocular: Between, or within, the eyes; as, the interocular distance;situated between the eyes, as the antennæ of some insects.
interopercular: Of or pertaining to the interoperculum.-- n.
interoperculum: The postero-inferior opercular bone, in fishes.
interorbital: Between the orbits; as, the interorbital septum.
interosculant: Uniting two groups; -- said of certain genera which connectfamily groups, or of species that connect genera. See Osculant.
interosculate: To have the character of, or to lie between, two distinctgroups.
interparietal: Between the parietal bones or cartilages; as, the interparietalsuture.-- n.
interpause: An intermission. [R.]
interpeal: To interpel. [Obs.]
interpedencular: Between peduncles; esp., between the peduncles, or crura, ofthe cerebrum.
interpel: To interrupt, break in upon, or intercede with. [Obs.]I am interpelled by many businesses. Howell.
interpellant: Interpelling; interrupting.-- n.
interpellate: To question imperatively, as a minister, or other executiveofficer, in explanation of his conduct; -- generally on the part of alegislative body.
interpenetrate: To penetrate between or within; to penetrate mutually.It interpenetrates my granite mass. Shelley.
interpenetration: The act of penetrating between or within other substances;mutual penetration. Milman.
interpenetrative: Penetrating among or between other substances; penetrating eachthe other; mutually penetrative.
interpetalary: Between the petals of a flower.
interpetiolar: Being between petioles. Cf. Intrapetiolar.
interphalangeal: Between phalanges; as, interphalangeal articulations.
interpilaster: The interval or space between two pilasters. Elmes.
interplace: To place between or among; as, to interplace a name. [R.]Daniel.
interplanetary: Between planets; as, interplanetary spaces. Boyle.
interplay: Mutual action or influence; interaction; as, the interplay ofaffection.
interplead: To plead against each other, or go to trial between themselves,as the claimants in an in an interpleader. See Interpleader. [Writtenalso enterplead.]
interpleader: A proceeding devised to enable a person, of whom the same debt,duty, or thing is claimed adversely by two or more parties, to compelthem to litigate the right or title between themselves, and therebyto relieve himself from the suits which they might otherwise bringagainst him.
interpledge: To pledge mutually. [R.]
interpoint: To point; to mark with stops or pauses; to punctuate. [R.]Her sighs should interpoint her words. Daniel.
interpolable: That may be interpolated; suitable to be interpolated.A most interpolable clause of one sentence. De Morgan.
interpolate: To fill up intermediate terms of, as of a series, according tothe law of the series; to introduce, as a number or quantity, in apartial series, according to the law of that part of the series.
interpolation: The method or operation of finding from a few given terms of aseries, as of numbers or observations, other intermediate terms inconformity with the law of the series.
interpolator: One who interpolates; esp., one who inserts foreign or spuriousmatter in genuine writings.
interpone: To interpose; to insert or place between. [R.] Cudworth.
interponent: One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent.[R.] Heywood.
interposal: The act of interposing; interposition; intervention.
interpose: Interposition. [Obs.]
interposer: One who, or that which, interposes or intervenes; an obstacleor interruption; a mediator or agent between parties. Shak.
interposit: An intermediate depot or station between one commercial city orcountry and another. Mitford.
interposure: Interposition. [Obs.]
interpret: To act as an interpreter. Shak.
interpretable: Admitting of interpretation; capable of being interpreted orexplained.
interpretament: Interpretation. [Obs.] Milton.
interpretation: An artist's way of expressing his thought or embodying hisconception of nature.
interpretatively: By interpretation. Ray.
interpreter: One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; atranslator; especially, a person who translates orally between twoparties.We think most men's actions to be the interpreters of their thoughts.Locke.
interpretive: Interpretative. [R.]
interpubic: Between the pubic bones or cartilages; as, the interpubic disk.
interpunction: The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation.
interradial: Between the radii, or rays; -- in zoölogy, said of certainparts of radiate animals; as, the interradial plates of a starfish.
interramal: Between rami or branches; esp., between the mandibles, or ramiof the lower jaw; intermandibular.
interreceive: To receive between or within.
interregency: An interregnum. [Obs.] Blount.
interregent: A person who discharges the royal functions during aninterregnum. Holland.
interreign: An interregnum. [Obs.] Bacon.
interrelated: Having a mutual or reciprocal relation or parallelism;correlative.
interrelation: Mutual or reciprocal relation; correlation.
interrenal: Between the kidneys; as, the interrenal body, an organ found inmany fishes.-- n.
interrepellent: Mutually repellent. De Quincey.
interrer: One who inters.
interrex: An interregent, or a regent.
interrogate: To question formally; to question; to examine by askingquestions; as, to interrogate a witness.Wilt thou, uncalled, interrogate, Talker! the unreplying FateEmerson.
interrogatee: One who is interrogated.
interrogative: Denoting a question; expressed in the form of a question; as,an interrogative sentence; an interrogative pronoun.
interrogatively: In the form of, or by means of, a question; in an interrogativemanner.
interrogator: One who asks questions; a questioner.
interrogatory: A formal question or inquiry; esp. (Law), a question asked inwriting. Macaulay.
interrupt: Broken; interrupted. [Obs.] Milton.
interrupted: Irregular; -- said of any arrangement whose symmetry isdestroyed by local causes, as when leaflets are interposed among theleaves in a pinnate leaf.
interruptedly: With breaks or interruptions; discontinuously. Interruptedlypinnate (Bot.), pinnate with small leaflets intermixed with largeones. Gray.
interrupter: A device for opening and closing an electrical circuit; avibrating spring or tuning fork, arranged to make and break a circuitat rapidly recurring intervals, by the action of the current itself.
interruptive: Tending to interrupt; interrupting. "Interruptive forces." H.Bushnell.-- In`ter*rupt"ive*ly, adv.
interscapular: Between the scapulæ or shoulder blades.
interscapulars: The interscapular feathers of a bird.
interscendent: Having exponents which are radical quantities; -- said ofcertain powers; as, xsq. root2, or xsq. roota. Interscedent series, aseries whose terms are interscendent quantities. Hutton.
interscind: To cut off. [R.]
interscribe: To write between. [R.]
intersecant: Dividing into parts; crossing; intersecting.
intersect: To cut into or between; to cut or cross mutually; to divideinto parts; as, any two diameters of a circle intersect each other atthe center.Lands intersected by a narrow frith Abhor each other. Cowper.
intersection: The point or line in which one line or surface cuts another.
intersectional: Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections.
interseminate: To sow between or among. [R.]
interseptal: Between septa; as, the interseptal spaces or zones, between thetransparent, or septal, zones in striated muscle; the interseptalchambers of a shell, or of a seed vessel.
intersert: To put in between other things; to insert. [Obs.] Brerewood.
interserttion: The act of interserting, or that which is interserted. [Obs.]Hammond.
intersesamoid: Between sesamoid bones; as, intersesamoid ligaments.
interset: To set between or among. [R.]
intershock: To shock mutually. [R.]
intersidereal: Between or among constellations or stars; interstellar.
intersocial: Pertaining to the mutual intercourse or relations of persons insociety; social.
intersomnious: Between the times of sleeping; in an interval of wakefulness.[R.]
interspace: Intervening space. Bp. Hacket.
interspeech: A speech interposed between others. [R.] Blount.
interspersion: The act of interspersing, or the state of being interspersed.
interspiration: Spiritual inspiration at separate times, or at intervals.[Obs.] Bp. Hall.
interstapedial: Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, between thestapes and the mediostapedial.-- n.
interstate: Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between,or including, different States; as, interstate commerce. Story.
interstellar: Between or among the stars; as, interstellar space. Bacon.
interstellary: Interstellar.
intersternal: Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts ofinsects and crustaceans.
intersticed: Provided with interstices; having interstices between; situatedat intervals.
interstinctive: Distinguishing. [Obs.] Wallis.
interstitial: Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within thetissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues ofanimals or plants.
interstition: An intervening period of time; interval. [Obs.] Gower.
interstratification: Stratification among or between other layers or strata; also,that which is interstratified.
interstratified: Stratified among or between other bodies; as, interstratifiedrocks.
interstratify: To put or insert between other strata.
intertalk: To converse. [Obs.] Carew.
intertangle: To entangle; to intertwine. "Moss and intertangled vines."Longfellow.
intertarsal: Between the tarsal bones; as, the intertarsal articulations.
intertex: To intertwine; to weave or bind together. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
intertexture: The act of interweaving, or the state of being interwoven; thatwhich is interwoven. "Knit in nice intertexture." Coleridge.Skirted thick with intertexture firm Of thorny boughs. Cowper.
interthoracic: In the thorax.
intertie: In any framed work, a horizontal tie other than sill and plateor other principal ties, securing uprights to one another.
intertissued: Interwoven. [R.] Shak.
intertraffic: Mutual trade of traffic.
intertranspicuous: Transpicuous within or between. [R.] Shelley.
intertransverse: Between the transverse processes of the vertebræ.
intertrigo: A rubbing or chafing of the skin; especially, an abrasion orexcoriation of the skin between folds, as in fat or neglectedchildren.
intertrochanteric: Between the trochanters of the femur.
intertropical: Situated between or within the tropics. J. Morse.
intertubular: Between tubes or tubules; as, intertubular cells; intertubularsubstance.
intertwine: To unite by twining one with another; to entangle; tointerlace. Milton.
intertwiningly: By intertwining or being intertwined.
intertwist: To twist together one with another; to intertwine.
intertwistingly: By intertwisting, or being intertwisted.
interurban: Going between, or connecting, cities or towns; as, interurbanelectric railways.
interval: Difference in pitch between any two tones. At intervals, comingor happening with intervals between; now and then. "And Miriamwatch'd and dozed at intervals." Tennyson.-- Augmented interval (Mus.), an interval increased by half a stepor half a tone.
intervallum: An interval. [R.]And a' shall laugh without intervallums. Shak.In one of these intervalla. Chillingworth.
intervary: To alter or vary between; to change. [Obs.] Rush.
interveined: Intersected, as with veins.
intervene: To come between. [R.]Self-sown woodlands of birch, alder, etc., intervening the differentestates. De Quincey.
intervener: One who intervenes; especially (Law), a person who assumes apart in a suit between others.
intervenient: Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed. [Obs.] Bacon.
intervent: To thwart; to obstruct. [Obs.] Chapman.
intervention: The act by which a third person, to protect his own interest,interposes and becomes a party to a suit pending between otherparties.
interventor: One who intervenes; a mediator; especially (Eccles. Hist.), aperson designated by a church to reconcile parties, and unite them inthe choice of officers. Coleman.
interventricular: Between the ventricles; as, the interventricular partition ofthe heart.
intervenue: Interposition. [Obs.] Sir H. Blount.
intervert: To turn to another course or use. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
intervertebral: Between vertebræ.-- In`ter*ver"te*bral*ly, adv.
interview: To have an interview with; to question or converse with,especially for the purpose of obtaining information for publication.[Recent]
interviewer: One who interviews; especially, one who obtains an interviewwith another for the purpose of eliciting his opinions or obtaininginformation for publication.It would have made him the prince of interviewers in these days.Leslie Stephen.
interviewing: The act or custom of holding an interview or interviews.An article on interviewing in the "Nation" of January 28, 1869, . . .was the first formal notice of the practice under that name. TheAmerican.
intervisible: Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, asstations.
intervisit: To exchange visits. [R.] Evelyn.
intervital: Between two lives. [R.]Through all its [the spirit's] intervital gloom. Tennyson.
intervocalic: Situated between vowels; immediately preceded and followed byvowel sounds, as, p in occupy, d in idea, etc.
intervolution: The state of being intervolved or coiled up; a convolution; as,the intervolutions of a snake. Hawthorne.
intervolve: To involve one within another; to twist or coil together.Milton.
interwish: To wish mutually in regarded to each other. [Obs.] Donne.
interworking: The act of working in together; interweaving. Milton.
interworld: A world between other worlds. Holland.
interwreathe: To weave into a wreath; to intertwine. [R.] Lovelace.
intestable: Not capable of making a will; not legally qualified orcompetent to make a testament. Blackstone.
intestacy: The state of being intestate, or of dying without having made avalid will. Blackstone.
intestate: A person who dies without making a valid will. Blackstone.
intestinal: Of or pertaining to the intestines of an animal; as, theintestinal tube; intestinal digestion; intestinal ferments.Intestinal canal. Same as Intestine, n.-- Intestinal worm (Zoöl.), any species of helminth living in theintestinal canal of any animal. The species are numerous.
intestine: That part of the alimentary canal between the stomach and theanus. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.
intext: The text of a book. [R.] Herrick.
intextine: A thin membrane existing in the pollen grains of some plants,and situated between the extine and the intine, as in .
intextured: Inwrought; woven in.
inthirst: To make thirsty. [Obs.]
inthrall: To reduce to bondage or servitude; to make a thrall, slave,vassal, or captive of; to enslave.She soothes, but never can inthrall my mind. Prior.
inthrallment: Act of inthralling, or state of being inthralled; servitude;bondage; vassalage.
inthrone: Same as Enthrone.
inthrong: To throng or collect together. [R.] Fairfax.
inthronization: Enthronement. Bp. Warburton.
inthronize: To enthrone.
intice: See Entice.
intimacy: The state of being intimate; close familiarity or association;nearness in friendship.
intimate: An intimate friend or associate; a confidant. Gov. of theTongue.
intimately: In an intimate manner.
intime: Inward; internal; intimate. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
intimidate: To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; todeter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash.Now guilt, once harbored in the conscious breast, Intimidates thebrave, degrades the great. Johnson.
intimidation: The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats;the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from thepolls by intimidation.The king carried his measures in Parliament by intimidation. Paley.
intimidatory: Tending or serving to intimidate.
intinction: A method or practice of the administration of the sacrament bydipping the bread or wafer in the wine and administering bothtogether.
intinctivity: The want of the quality of coloring or tingeing other bodies.Kirwan.
intine: A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, whichforms the innermost coating of grains of pollen.
intitle: See Entitle.
intitule: To entitle; to give a title to. Selden.
into: To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety ofapplications.
intolerability: The quality of being intolerable; intolerableness. [R.]
intolerancy: Intolerance. Bailey.
intolerant: An intolerant person; a bigot.
intolerantly: In an intolerant manner.
intolerated: Not tolerated.
intolerating: Intolerant. [R.]
intoleration: Intolerance; want of toleration; refusal to tolerate adifference of opinion.
intomb: To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb.
intombment: See Entombment.
intonate: To thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.
intonation: A thundering; thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.
intone: To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant;as, to intone the church service.
intorsion: The bending or twining of any part of a plant toward one sideor the other, or in any direction from the vertical.
intort: To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring.Pope.
intortion: See Intorsion.
intoxicant: That which intoxicates; an intoxicating agent; as, alcohol,opium, and laughing gas are intoxicants.
intoxicatedness: The state of being intoxicated; intoxication; drunkenness. [R.]
intoxicating: Producing intoxication; as, intoxicating liquors.
intoxication: A poisoning, as by a spirituous or a narcotic substance.
intra-: A prefix signifying in, within, interior; as, intraocular,within the eyeball; intramarginal.
intraaxillary: Situated below the point where a leaf joins the stem.
intracellular: Within a cell; as, the intracellular movements seen in thepigment cells, the salivary cells, and in the protoplasm of somevegetable cells.
intracolic: Within the colon; as, the intracolic valve.
intracranial: Within the cranium or skull. Sir W. Hamilton.
intractability: The quality of being intractable; intractableness. Bp. Hurd.
intractable: Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed;indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn;obstinate; refractory; as, an intractable child.
intractile: Not tractile; incapable of being drawn out or extended. Bacon.
intrados: The interior curve of an arch; esp., the inner or lower curvedface of the whole body of voussoirs taken together. See Extrados.
intrafoliaceous: Growing immediately above, or in front of, a leaf; as,intrafoliaceous stipules.
intrafusion: The act of pouring into a vessel; specif. (Med.), the operationof introducing a substance into a blood vessel; as, intrafusion ofblood.
intralobular: Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepaticveins.
intramarginal: Situated within the margin. Loudon.
intramercurial: Between the planet Mercury and the sun; -- as, the hypotheticalVulcan is intramercurial.
intramolecular: Between molecules; situated, or acting, between the moleculesof bodies.
intramundane: Being within the material world; -- opposed to extramundane.
intramural: Being within the substance of the walls of an organ; as,intramural pregnancy.
intranquillity: Unquietness; restlessness. Sir W. Temple.
intranscalent: Impervious to heat; adiathermic.
intransgressible: Incapable of being transgressed; not to be passes over orcrossed. Holland.
intransient: Not transient; remaining; permanent. Killingbeck.
intransigent: Refusing compromise; uncompromising; irreconcilable. Lond. Sat.Rev.
intransigentes: The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables.
intransitive: Not transitive; not passing over tas, an intransitive verb, e.g., the bird flies; the dog runs.
intransitively: Without an object following; in the manner of an intransitiveverb.
intransmissible: Not capable of being transmitted.
intransmutability: The quality of being intransmutable.
intransmutable: Not capable of being transmuted or changed into anothersubstance.
intrant: Entering; penetrating.
intranuclear: Within the nucleus of a cell; as. the intranuclear network offibrils, seen in the first stages of karyokinesis.
intrap: See Entrap. Spenser.
intraparietal: Situated or occurring within an inclosure; shut off from publicsight; private; secluded; retired.I have no Turkish proclivities, and I do not think that, after all,impaling is preferable as a mode of capital punishment tointraparietal hanging. Roll
intrapetiolar: Situated between the petiole and the stem; -- said of the pairof stipules at the base of a petiole when united by those marginsnext the petiole, thus seeming to form a single stipule between thepetiole and the stem or branch; -- often confounded withinterpetiolar, from which it differs essentially in meaning.
intraterritorial: Within the territory or a territory.
intrathoracic: Within the thora
intratropical: Within the tropics.
intrauterine: Within the uterus or womb; as, intrauterine hemorrhage.
intravalvular: Between valves.
intravenous: Within the veins.
intraventricular: Within or between ventricles.
intreasure: To lay up, as in a treasury; to hoard. [Obs.] Shak.
intreat: See Entreat. Spenser.
intreatable: Not to be entreated; inexorable.
intreatance: Entreaty. [Obs.] Holland.
intreatful: Full of entreaty. [Obs.] Spenser.
intrench: To invade; to encroach; to infringe or trespass; to enter on,and take possession of, that which belongs to another; -- usuallyfollowed by on or upon; as, the king was charged with intrenching onthe rights of the nobles, and the nobles were accused of intrenchingon the prerogative of the crown.We are not to intrench upon truth in any conversation, but least ofall with children. Locke.
intrenchant: Not to be gashed or marked with furrows. [Obs.]As easy mayest thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress,as make me bleed. Shak.
intrenchment: Any defensive work consisting of at least a trench or ditch anda parapet made from the earth thrown up in making such a ditch.On our side, we have thrown up intrenchments on Winter and ProspectHills. Washington.
intrepid: Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave;undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.
intrepidity: The quality or state of being intrepid; fearless bravery;courage; resoluteness; valor.Sir Roger had acquitted himself of two or three sentences with a lookof much business and great intrepidity. Addison.
intrepidly: In an intrepid manner; courageously; resolutely.
intricable: Entangling. [Obs.] Shelton.
intricacy: The state or quality of being intricate or entangled;perplexity; involution; complication; complexity; that which isintricate or involved; as, the intricacy of a knot; the intricacy ofaccounts; the intricacy of a cause in controversy; the intricacy of aplot.Freed from intricacies, taught to live The easiest way. Milton.
intricate: Entangled; involved; perplexed; complicated; difficult tounderstand, follow, arrange, or adjust; as, intricate machinery,labyrinths, accounts, plots, etc.His style was fit to convey the most intricate business to theunderstanding with the utmost clearness. Addison.The nature of man is intricate. Burke.
intricately: In an intricate manner.
intricateness: The state or quality of being intricate; intricacy.
intrication: Entanglement. [Obs.]
intrigante: A female intriguer.
intrigue: To fill with artifice and duplicity; to complicate; toembarrass. [Obs.]How doth it [sin] perplex and intrique the whole course of yourlives! Dr. J. Scott.
intriguer: One who intrigues.
intriguery: Arts or practice of intrigue.
intriguingly: By means of, or in the manner of, intrigue.
intrinse: Tightly drawn; or (perhaps) intricate. [Very rare]Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain, Which are too intrinse tounloose. Shak.
intrinsic: Included wholly within an organ or limb, as certain groups ofmuscles; -- opposed to extrinsic. Intrinsic energy of a body(Physics), the work it can do in virtue of its actual condition,without any supply of energy from without.-- Intrinsic equation of a curve (Geom.), the equation whichexpresses the relation which the length of a curve, measured from agiven point of it, to a movable point, has to the angle which thetangent to the curve at the movable point makes with a fixed line.-- Intrinsic value. See the Note under Value, n.
intrinsicality: The quality of
intrinsically: Internally;A lie is a thing absolutely and intrinsically evil. South.
intrinsicalness: The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality.
intrinsicate: Intricate. [Obs.] Shak.
intro-: A prefix signifying within, into, in, inward; as, introduce,introreception, introthoracic.
introcession: A depression, or inward sinking of parts.
introducement: Introduction. [Obs.]
introducer: One who, or that which, introduces.
introduct: To introduce. [Obs.]
introductive: Serving to introduce; introductory.-- In`tro*duc"tive*ly, adv.
introductor: An introducer. [Obs.]
introductorily: By way of introduction.
introductory: Serving to introduce something else; leading to the mainsubject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductoryproceedings; an introductory discourse.
introductress: A female introducer.
introflexed: Flexed or bent inward.
introgression: The act of going in; entrance. Blount.
introit: An anthem or psalm sung before the Communion service.
intromission: An intermeddling with the affairs of another, either on legalgrounds or without authority.
intromit: To intermeddle with the effects or goods of another.
intromittent: Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organsof the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females.
intromitter: One who intromits.
intropression: Pressure acting within. [R.]
introreception: The act of admitting into or within. Hammond.
introrse: Turning or facing inward, or toward the axis of the part towhich it belongs. Gray.
introspect: To look into or within; to view the inside of. Bailey.
introspection: A view of the inside or interior; a looking inward;specifically, the act or process of self-examination, or inspectionof one's own thoughts and feelings; the cognition which the mind hasof its own acts and states; self-consciousness; reflection.I was forced to make an introspection into my own mind. Dryden.
introspectionist: One given to the introspective method of examining thephenomena of the soul.
introsume: To draw in; to swallow. [Obs.] Evelyn.
introsusception: Same as Intussusception.
introvenient: Coming in together; entering; commingling. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
introversion: The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; theact of turning the mind inward. Berkeley.
intrude: To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation,permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass; as, to intrude onfamilies at unseasonable hours; to intrude on the lands of another.Thy wit wants edge And manners, to intrude where I am graced. Shak.Some thoughts rise and intrude upon us, while we shun them; othersfly from us, when we would hold them. I. Watts.
intruded: Same as Intrusive.
intruder: One who intrudes; one who thrusts himself in, or enters withoutright, or without leave or welcome; a trespasser.They were all strangers and intruders. Locke.
intrudress: A female intruder.
intrunk: To inclose as in a trunk; to incase. [R.] Ford.
intrusion: The penetrating of one rock, while in a plastic or metal state,into the cavities of another.
intrusional: Of or pertaining to intrusion.
intrusionist: One who intrudes; especially, one who favors the appointment ofa clergyman to a parish, by a patron, against the wishes of theparishioners.
intrusive: Apt to intrude; characterized by intrusion; entering withoutright or welcome. Intrusive rocks (Geol.), rocks which have beenforced, while in a plastic or melted state, into the cavities orbetween the cracks or layers of other rocks. The term is sometimesused as equivalent to plutonic rocks. It is then contrasted witheffusive or volcanic rocks.-- In*tru"sive*ly, adv.-- In*tru"sive*ness, n.
intrust: To deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to(another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) toanother with a certain confidence regarding his care, use, ordisposal of it; as, to intrust a servant with one's money or intrustmoney or goods to a servant.
intubation: The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, asinto the larynx in croup.
intuitional: Pertaining to, or derived from, intuition; characterized byintuition; perceived by intuition; intuitive.
intuitionalism: The doctrine that the perception or recognition of primarytruth is intuitive, or direct and immediate; -- opposed tosensationalism, and experientialism.
intuitionalist: One who holds the doctrine of intuitionalism.
intuitionism: Same as Intuitionalism.
intuitionist: Same as Intuitionalist. Bain.
intuitively: In an intuitive manner.
intuitivism: The doctrine that the ideas of right and wrong are intuitive.J. Grote.
intumesce: To enlarge or expand with heat; to swell; specifically, toswell up or bubble up under the action of heat, as before theblowpipe.In a higher heat, it intumesces, and melts into a yellowish blackmass. Kirwan.
intumescent: Swelling up; expanding.
intumulated: Unburied. [Obs.]
intune: To intone. Cf. Entune.
inturbidate: To render turbid; to darken; to confuse. [R.]The confusion of ideas and conceptions under the same term painfullyinturbidates his theology. Coleridge.
inturgescence: A swelling; the act of swelling, or state of being swelled.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
intuse: A bruise; a contusion. [Obs.] Spenser.
intussuscepted: Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into asheath; invaginated.
intussusception: The abnormal reception or slipping of a part of a tube, byinversion and descent, within a contiguous part of it; specifically,the reception or slipping of the upper part of the small intestineinto the lower; introsusception; invagination. Dunglison.
intwine: To twine or twist into, or together; to wreathe; as, a wreathof flowers intwined. [Written also entwine.]
intwinement: The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined.
intwist: To twist into or together; to interweave. [Written alsoentwist.]
inuendo: See Innuendo.
inulin: A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved inthe sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants,as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solutionas a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch,with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature betweenstarch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc.
inuloid: A substance resembling inulin, found in the unripe bulbs of thedahila.
inumbrate: To shade; to darken. [Obs.]
inuncted: Anointed. [Obs.] Cockeram.
inunction: The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction;specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of theskin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury,iodide of potash, etc., are absorbed.
inunctuosity: The want of unctuosity; freedom from greasiness or oiliness;as, the inunctuosity of porcelain clay. Kirwan.
inundant: Overflowing. [R.] Shenstone.
inunderstanding: Void of understanding. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
inurbane: Uncivil; unpolished; rude. M. Arnold.-- In`ur*bane"ly, adv.-- In`ur*bane"ness, n.
inurbanity: Want of urbanity or courtesy; unpolished manners or deportment;inurbaneness; rudeness. Bp. Hall.
inure: To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustomtill use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; tohabituate; to practice habitually. "To inure our prompt obedience."Milton.He . . . did inure them to speak little. Sir T. North.Inured and exercised in learning. Robynson (More's Utopia).The poor, inured to drudgery and distress. Cowper.
inurement: Use; practice; discipline; habit; custom.
inurn: To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; tointomb.The sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned. Shak.
inusitate: Unusual. [R.] Bramhall.
inusitation: Want of use; disuse. [R.] Paley.
inust: Burnt in. [Obs.]
inustion: The act of burning or branding. [Obs.] T. Adams.
inutile: Useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] Bacon.
inutility: Uselessness; the quality of being unprofitable;unprofitableness; as, the inutility of vain speculations andvisionary projects.
inutterable: Unutterable; inexpressible. Milton.
invade: To make an invasion. Brougham.
invader: One who invades; an assailant; an encroacher; an intruder.
invaginate: To insert as in a sheath; to pr
invagination: The condition of an invaginated organ or part.
invalescence: Strength; health. [Obs.]
invaletudinary: Wanting health; valetudinary. [R.]
invalid: Having no force, effect, or efficacy; void; null; as, aninvalid contract or agreement.
invalidate: To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroythe authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as,to invalidate an agreement or argument.
invalidation: The act of inavlidating, or the state of being invalidated.So many invalidations of their right. Burke.
invalide: See Invalid, n.
invalidism: The condition of an invalid; sickness; infirmity.
invalidness: Invalidity; as, the invalidness of reasoning.
invalorous: Not valorous; cowardly.
invaluable: Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious.
invaluably: Inestimably. Bp. Hall.
invalued: Inestimable. [R.] Drayton.
invariability: The quality of being invariable; invariableness; constancy;uniformity.
invariable: Not given to variation or change; unalterable; unchangeable;always uniform.Physical laws which are invariable. I. Taylor.-- In*va"ri*a*ble*ness, n.-- In*va"ri*a*bly, adv.
invariance: The property of remaining invariable under prescribed orimplied conditions. J. J. Sylvester.
invariant: An invariable quantity; specifically, a function of thecoefficients of one or more forms, which remains unaltered, whenthese undergo suitable linear transformations. J. J. Sylvester.
invasive: Tending to invade; characterized by invasion; aggressive."Invasive war." Hoole.
invect: To inveigh. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
invected: Having a border or outline composed of semicircles with theconvexity outward; -- the opposite of engrailed.
invection: An inveighing against; invective. [Obs.] Fulke.
invective: Characterized by invection; critical; denunciatory; satirical;abusive; railing.
invectively: In an invective manner. Shak.
inveigh: To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to uttercensorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism orreproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- withagainst; as, to inveigh against character, conduct, manners, customs,morals, a law, an abuse.All men inveighed against him; all men, except court vassals, opposedhim. Milton.The artificial life against which we inveighed. Hawthorne.
inveigher: One who inveighs.
inveigle: To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil bydeceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; towheedle.Yet have they many baits and guileful spells To inveigle and invitethe un unwary sense. Milton.
inveiglement: The act of inveigling, or the state of being inveigled; thatwhich inveigles; enticement; seduction. South.
inveigler: One who inveigles.
inveil: To cover, as with a vail. W. Browne.
invendibility: The quality of being invendible; invendibleness; unsalableness.
invendible: Not vendible or salable. Jefferson.-- In*vend"i*ble*ness, n.
invenom: See Envenom.
inventer: One who invents.
inventful: Full of invention. J. Gifford.
inventible: Capable of being invented.
inventibleness: Quality of being inventible.
invention: The exercise of the imagination in selecting and treating atheme, or more commonly in contriving the arrangement of a piece, orthe method of presenting its parts. Invention of the cross (Eccl.), afestival celebrated May 3d, in honor of the finding of our Savior'scross by St. Helena.
inventious: Inventive. [Obs.]
inventive: Able and apt to invent; quick at contrivance; ready atexpedients; as, an inventive head or genius. Dryden.-- In*vent"ive*ly, adv.-- In*vent"ive*ness, n.
inventor: One who invents or finds out something new; a contriver;especially, one who invents mechanical devices.
inventorial: Of or pertaining to an inventory.-- In`ven*to"ri*al*ly, adv. Shak.
inventory: An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor oradministrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of thereal estate, of a deceased person; a list of the property of which aperson or estate is found to be possessed; hence, an itemized list ofgoods or valuables, with their estimated worth; specifically, theannual account of stock taken in any business.There take an inventory of all I have. Shak.
inventress: A woman who invents. Dryden.
inveracity: Want of veracity.
inverisimilitude: Want of verisimilitude or likelihood; improbability.
inverse: Inverted; having a position or mode of attachment the reverseof that which is usual.
inversely: In an inverse order or manner; by inversion; -- opposed todirectly. Inversely proportional. See Directly proportional, underDirectly, and Inversion, 4.
inversion: A movement in tactics by which the order of companies in lineis inverted, the right being on the left, the left on the right, andso on.
invert: To change the position of; -- said of tones which form a chord,or parts which compose harmony.
invertebral: Same as Invertebrate.
invertebrata: A comprehensive division of the animal kingdom, including allexcept the Vertebrata.
invertebrate: Destitute of a backbone; having no vertebræ; of or pertainingto the Invertebrata.-- n.
invertebrated: Having no backbone; invertebrate.
inverted: Situated apparently in reverse order, as strata when foldedback upon themselves by upheaval. Inverted arch (Arch.), an archplaced with crown downward; -- much used in foundations.
invertedly: In an inverted order. Derham.
invertible: Capable of being changed or converted; as, invertible sugar.
invertin: An unorganized ferment which causes cane sugar to take up amolecule of water and be converted into invert sugar.
invest: To inclose; to surround of hem in with troops, so as tointercept succors of men and provisions and prevent escape; to laysiege to; as, to invest a town.
investient: Covering; clothing. [R.] Woodward.
investigable: Capable or susceptible of being investigated; admittingresearch. Hooker.
investigate: To follow up step by step by patient inquiry or observation; totrace or track mentally; to search into; to inquire and examine intowith care and accuracy; to find out by careful inquisition; as, toinvestigate the causes of natural phenomena.
investigation: The act of investigating; the process of inquiring into orfollowing up; research; study; inquiry, esp. patient or thoroughinquiry or examination; as, the investigations of the philosopher andthe mathematician; the investigations of the judge, the moralist.
investigative: Given to investigation; inquisitive; curious; searching.
investigator: One who searches diligently into a subject.
investiture: Livery of seizin.The grant of land or a feud was perfected by the ceremonyoinvestiture, or open delivery of possession. Blackstone.
investive: Investing. [R.] Mir. for Mag.
investment: The act of surrounding, blocking up, or besieging by an armedforce, or the state of being so surrounded.The capitulation was signed by the commander of the fort within sixdays after its investments. Marshall.
investor: One who invests.
investure: Investiture; investment. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
inveterate: To fix and settle by long continuance. [Obs.] Bacon.
inveterately: In an inveterate manner or degree. "Inveterately tough."Hawthorne.
inveterateness: Inveteracy. Sir T. Browne.
inveteration: The act of making inveterate. [R.] Bailey.
invict: Invincible. [Obs.] Joye.
invidious: Want of vigilance; neglect of watching; carelessness.
invigor: To invigorate. [Obs.]
invigorate: To give vigor to; to strengthen; to animate; to give life andenergy to.Christian graces and virtues they can not be, unless fed,invigorated, and animated by universal charity. Atterbury.
invigoration: The act of invigorating, or the state of being invigorated.
invile: To render vile. [Obs.] Daniel.
invillaged: Turned into, or reduced to, a village. [Obs.] W. Browne.
invincibility: The quality or state of being invincible; invincibleness.
invincible: Incapable of being conquered, overcome, or subdued;unconquerable; insuperable; as, an invincible army, or obstacle.Lead forth to battle these my sons Invincible. Milton.-- In*vin"ci*ble*ness, n.-- In*vin"ci*bly, adv.
inviolability: The quality or state of being inviolable; inviolableness.
inviolableness: The quality or state of being inviolable; as, theinviolableness of divine justice.
inviolably: Without violation.
inviolacy: The state or quality of being inviolate; as, the inviolacy ofan oath.
inviolately: In an inviolate manner.
inviolateness: The state of being inviolate.
invious: Untrodden. [R.] Hudibras.-- In"vi*ous*ness, n. [R.]
invirile: Deficient in manhood; unmanly; effeminate. Lowell.
invirility: Absence of virility or manhood; effeminacy. Prynne.
inviscate: To daub or catch with glue or birdlime; to entangle withglutinous matter. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
inviscerate: To breed; to nourish. [R.] W. Montagu.
invisibility: The state or quality of being invisible; also, that which isinvisible. "Atoms and invisibilities." Landor.
invisible: Incapable of being seen; not perceptible by vision; notvisible.To us invisible, or dimly seen In these thy lowest works. Milton.Invisible bird (Zoöl.), a small, shy singing bird (Myadestessibilons), of St. Vincent Islands.-- Invisible green, a very dark shade of green, approaching toblack, and liable to be mistaken for it.
invisibleness: The quality or state of being invisible; invisibility.
invisibly: In an invisible manner, Denham.
invision: Want of vision or of the power of seeing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
invitatory: Using or containing invitations.The "Venite" [Psalm xcv.], which is also called the invitatory psalm.Hook.
invite: To give invitation. Milton.
invitement: Invitation. [Obs.] Chapman.
inviter: One who, or that which, invites.
invitiate: Not vitiated. Lowell.
inviting: Alluring; tempting; as, an inviting amusement or prospect.Nothing is so easy and inviting as the retort of abuse and sarcasm.W. Irving.-- In*vit"ing*ly, adv.-- In*vit"ing*ness, n. Jer. Taylor.
invitrifiable: Not admitting of being vitrified, or converted into glass.Kirwan.
invocate: To invoke; to call on, or for, in supplication; to implore.If Dagon be thy god, Go to his temple, invocate his aid. Milton.
invocation: A call or summons; especially, a judicial call, demand, ororder; as, the invocation of papers or evidence into court.
invocatory: Making or containing invocation; invoking.
invoice: A written account of the particulars of merchandise shipped orsent to a purchaser, consignee, factor, etc., with the value orprices and charges annexed. Wharton.
invoke: To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly orsolemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand byinvocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invokeHis and blessing.Go, my dread lord, to your great grandsire's tomb, . . . Invoke hiswarlike spirit. Shak.
involucel: A partial, secondary, or small involucre. See Illust. ofInvolucre.
involucellate: Furnished with involucels.
involucellum: See Involucel.
involucral: Pertaining to, possessing, or like, an involucrum.
involucred: Having an involucre, as umbels, heads, etc. Martyn.
involucret: An involucel.
involucrum: See Involucre.
involuntarily: In an involuntary manner; not voluntarily; not intentionally orwillingly.
involuntariness: The quality or state of being involuntary; unwillingness;automatism.
involuntary: Rolled inward from the edges; -- said of leaves in vernation,or of the petals of flowers in æstivation. Gray.
involute: A curve traced by the end of a string wound upon another curve,or unwound from it; -- called also evolvent. See Evolute.
involution: The insertion of one or more clauses between the subject andthe verb, in a way that involves or complicates the construction.
involve: To raise to any assigned power; to multiply, as a quantity,into itself a given number of times; as, a quantity involved to thethird or fourth power.
involved: Same as Involute.
involvedness: The state of being involved.
involvement: The act of involving, or the state of being involved. LewWallace.
invulgar: To cause to become or appear vulgar. [Obs.] Daniel.
invulnerability: Quality or state of being invulnerable.
invulnerableness: Invulnerability.
invulnerate: Invulnerable.
inwall: To inclose or fortify as with a wall. Spenser.
inwards: See Inward.
inweave: To weave in or together; to intermix or intertwine by weaving;to interlace.Down they cast Their crowns, inwove with amaranth and gold. Milton.
inwheel: To encircle. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
inwit: Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience. [Obs.] Wyclif.
inwith: Within. [Obs.]This purse hath she inwith her bosom hid. Chaucer.
inwork: To work in or within.
inworn: Worn, wrought, or stamped in. [R.] Milton.
inwreathe: To surround or encompass as with a wreath. [Written alsoenwreathe.]Resplendent locks, inwreathed with beams. Milton.
inwrought: Wrought or worked in or among other things; worked into anyfabric so as to from a part of its texture; wrought or adorned, aswith figures.His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge, Inwrought with figures dim.Milton.
io: An exclamation of joy or triumph; -- often interjectional.
io moth: A large and handsome American moth (Hyperchiria Io), having alarge, bright-colored spot on each hind wing, resembling the spots onthe tail of a peacock. The larva is covered with prickly hairs, whichsting like nettles.
iod-: See Iodo-.
iodal: An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal.
iodate: A salt of iodic acid.
iodhydrin: One of a series of compounds containing iodine, and analogousto the chlorhydrins.
iodic: to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds inwhich it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid. Iodic acid, amonobasic acid, consisting of iodine with three parts of oxygen andone of hydrogen.
iodide: A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded asbinary; as, potassium iodide.
iodine: A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring alwaysin combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form ofdark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, andemitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. Ifheated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors.
iodism: A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds,and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation,with a pustular eruption upon the skin.
iodize: To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, toiodize a plate for photography. R. Hunt.
iodizer: One who, or that which, iodizes.
iodocresol: Any of several isomeric iodine derivatives of the cresols,C6H3I(CH3)OH, esp. one, an odorless amorphous powder, used inmedicine as a substitute for iodoform.
iodoform: A yellow, crystalline, volatile substance, CI3H, having anoffensive odor and sweetish taste, and analogous to chloroform. It isused in medicine as a healing and antiseptic dressing for wounds andsores.
iodoformogen: A light powder used as a substitute for iodoform. It is acompound of iodoform and albumin.
iodol: A crystallized substance of the composition C4I4NH, technicallytetra-iodo-pyrrol, used like iodoform.
iodoquinine: A iodide of quinine obtained as a brown substance,. It is thebase of herapathite. See Herapathite.
iodothyrin: A peculiar substance obtained from the thyroid gland,containing from nine to ten per cent of iodine.
iodous: Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemicalsuffix). Iodous acid, a hypothetical acid, analogous to chlorousacid.
ioduret: Iodide. [Obs.]
iodyrite: Silver iodide, a mineral of a yellowish color.
iolite: A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright bluecolor and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for itsdichroism, and is also called dichroite.
ion: One of the elements which appear at the respective poles when abody is subjected to electro-chemical decomposition. Cf. Anion,Cation.
ionian: Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic.-- n.
ionic: Pertaining to the Ionic order of architecture, one of the threeorders invented by the Greeks, and one of the five recognized by theItalian writers of the sixteenth century. Its distinguishing featureis a capital with spiral volutes. See Illust. of Capital. Ionicdialect (Gr. Gram.), a dialect of the Greek language, used in Ionia.The Homeric poems are written in what is designated old Ionic, asdistinguished from new Ionic, or Attic, the dialect of all cultivatedGreeks in the period of Athenian prosperity and glory.-- Ionic foot. (Pros.) See Ionic, n., 1.-- Ionic, or Ionian, mode (Mus.), an ancient mode, supposed tocorrespond with the modern major scale of C.-- Ionic sect, a sect of philosophers founded by Thales of Miletus,in Ionia. Their distinguishing tenet was, that water is the originalprinciple of all things.-- Ionic type, a kind of heavy-faced type (as that of the followingline).
ionidium: A genus of violaceous plants, chiefly found in tropicalAmerica, some species of which are used as substitutes foripecacuanha.
ionize: To separate (a compound) into ions, esp. by dissolving inwater. --I`on*i*za"tion (#), n.
ioqua shell: The shell of a large Dentalium (D. pretiosum), formerly used asshell money, and for ornaments, by the Indians of the west coast ofNorth America.
iotacism: The frequent use of the sound of iota (that of English e inbe), as among the modern Greeks; also, confusion from soundingLittré.
iowas: ; sing. Iowa. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians which formerlyoccupied the region now included in the State of Iowa.
ipecac: An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use.
ipecacuanha: The root of a Brazilian rubiaceous herb (CephaëlisIpecacuanha), largely employed as an emetic; also, the plant itself;also, a medicinal extract of the root. Many other plants are used asa substitutes; among them are the black or Peruvian ipecac(Psychotria emetica), the white ipecac (Ionidium Ipecacuanha), thebastard or wild ipecac (Asclepias Curassavica), and the undulatedipecac (Richardsonia scabra).
ipocras: Hippocras. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ipomoea: , and Gray.] (Bot.) A genus of twining plants with showymonopetalous flowers, including the morning-glory, the sweet potato,and the cypress vine.
ipomoeic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by theoxidation of convolvulin (obtained from jalap, the tubers of Ipomoeapurga), and identical in most of its properties with sebacic acid.
ir-: . A form of the prefix in-. See In-.
iracund: Irascible; choleric. "Iracund people." Carlyle.
irade: A decree of the Sultan.
iran: The native name of Persia.
iranian: Of or pertaining to Iran.-- n.
iranic: Iranian.
irascibility: The quality or state of being irascible; irritability oftemper; irascibleness.
irascible: Prone to anger; easily provoked or inflamed to anger; choleric;irritable; as, an irascible man; an irascible temper or mood.-- I*ras"ci*ble*ness, n.-- I*ras"ci*bly, adv.
irate: Angry; incensed; enraged. [Recent]The irate colonel . . . stood speechless. Thackeray.Mr. Jaggers suddenly became most irate. Dickens.
ire: Anger; wrath. [Poet.]
ireful: Full of ire; angry; wroth. "The ireful bastard Orleans." Shak.-- Ire"ful*ly, adv.
irefulness: Wrathfulness. Wyclif.
irenarch: An officer in the Greek empire having functions correspondingto those of a justice of the peace. [Written also eirenarch.]
irenicon: A proposition or device for securing peace, especially in thechurch. South.
irenics: That branch of Christian science which treats of the methods ofsecuring unity among Christians or harmony and union among thechurches; -- called also Irenical theology. Schaff-Herzog.
irestone: Any very hard rock.
irian: Of or pertaining to the iris. "Irian nerves." Dunglison.
iricism: Irishism. [R.] Jeffrey.
iridal: Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, theiridal colors. Whewell.
iridectomy: The act or process of cutting out a portion of the iris inorder to form an artificial pupil.
iridescence: Exhibition of colors like those of the rainbow; the quality orstate of being iridescent; a prismatic play of color; as, theiridescence of mother-of-pearl.
iridescent: Having colors like the rainbow; exhibiting a play of changeablecolors; nacreous; prismatic; as, iridescent glass.
iridian: Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow.
iridiated: Iridescent.
iridic: Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye.
iridioscope: A kind of ophthalmoscope.
iridious: Of or pertaining to iridium; -- applied specifically tocompounds in which iridium has a low valence.
iridium: A rare metallic element, of the same group as platinum, whichit much resembles, being silver-white, but harder, and brittle, andindifferent to most corrosive agents. With the exception of osmium,it is the heaviest substance known, its specific gravity being 22.4.Symbol Ir. Atomic weight 192.5.
iridoline: A nitrogenous base C10H9N, extracted from coal-tar naphtha, asan oily liquid. It is a member of the quinoline series, and isprobably identical with lepidine.
iris: The goddess of the rainbow, and swift-footed messenger of thegods. Shak.
iris diaphragm: An adjustable diaphragm, suggesting the iris of the eye in itsaction, for regulating the aperture of a lens, consisting of a numberof thin pieces fastened to a ring. It is used in cameras andmicroscopes.
irisated: Exhibiting the prismatic colors; irised; iridescent. W.Phillips.
iriscope: A philosophical toy for exhibiting the prismatic tints by meansof thin films.
irised: Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent. Holmes.
irish: Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced inIreland. Irish elk. (Zoöl.) See under Elk.-- Irish moss. (a) (Bot.) Carrageen. (b) A preparation of the samemade into a blanc mange.-- Irish poplin. See Poplin.-- Irish potato, the ordinary white potato, so called because it isa favorite article of food in Ireland.-- Irish reef, or Irishman's reef (Naut.), the head of a sail tiedup.-- Irish stew, meat, potatoes, and onions, cut in small pieces andstewed.
irish american: A native of Ireland who has become an American citizen; also, achild or descendant of such a person.
irishism: A mode of speaking peculiar to the Irish; an Hibernicism.
irishman: A man born in Ireland or of the Irish race; an Hibernian.Irishman's hurricane (Naut.), a dead calm.-- Irishman's reef. (Naut.) See Irish reef, under Irish, a.
irishry: The Celtic people of Ireland. "The whole Irishry of rebels."Milton.
iritis: An inflammation of the iris of the eye.
irk: To weary; to give pain; to annoy; -- used only impersonally atpresent.To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Shak.It irketh him to be here. M. Arnold.
iron: The most common and most useful metallic element, being ofalmost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (ashematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite,etc.). It is reduced on an enormous scale in three principal forms;viz., cast iron, steel, and wrought iron. Iron usually appears darkbrown, from oxidation or impurity, but when pure, or an freshsurface, is a gray or white metal. It is easily oxidized (rusted) bymoisture, and is attacked by many corrosive agents. Symbol Fe (LatinFerrum). Atomic weight 55.9. Specific gravity, pure iron, 7.86; castiron, 7.1. In magnetic properties, it is superior to all othersubstances.
iron works: . See under Iron, a.
iron-cased: Cased or covered with iron, as a vessel; ironclad.
iron-fisted: Closefisted; stingy; mean.
iron-gray: Of a gray color, somewhat resembling that of iron freshlybroken.-- n.
iron-hearted: Hard-hearted; unfeeling; cruel; as, an iron-hearted master.Cowper.
iron-sick: Having the ironwork loose or corroded; -- said of a ship whenher bolts and nails are so eaten with rust that she has become leaky.
iron-sided: Having iron sides, or very firm sides.
ironbark tree: The Australian Eucalyptus Sideroxylon, used largely bycarpenters and shipbuilders; -- called also ironwood.
ironclad: A naval vessel having the parts above water covered andprotected by iron or steel usually in large plates closely joined andmade sufficiently thick and strong to resist heavy shot.
ironer: One who, or that which, irons.
ironheads: A European composite herb (Centaurea nigra); -- so called fromthe resemblance of its knobbed head to an iron ball fixed on a longhandle. Dr. Prior.
ironic: Ironical. Sir T. Herbert.
ironish: Resembling iron, as in taste. Wood.
ironist: One who uses irony.
ironmaster: A manufacturer of iron, or large dealer therein. Bp. Hurd.
ironmonger: A dealer in iron or hardware.
ironmongery: Hardware; a general name for all articles made of iron. Gwilt.
ironsides: A cuirassier or cuirassiers; also, hardy veteran soldiers; --applied specifically to Cromwell's cavalry.
ironsmith: An East Indian barbet (Megalaima faber), inhabiting the Islandof Hainan. The name alludes to its note, which resembles the soundsmade by a smith.
ironstone: A hard, earthy ore of iron. Clay ironstone. See under Clay.-- Ironstone china, a hard white pottery, first made in Englandduring the 18th century.
ironware: Articles made of iron, as household utensils, tools, and thelike.
ironweed: A tall weed with purplish flowers (Vernonia Noveboracensis).The name is also applied to other plants of the same genus.
ironwood: A tree unusually hard, strong, or heavy wood.
ironwork: Anything made of iron; -- a general name of such parts orpieces of a building, vessel, carriage, etc., as consist of iron.
ironwort: An herb of the Mint family (Sideritis), supposed to heal swordcuts; also, a species of Galeopsis.
iroquoian: Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principallinguistic stocks of the North American Indians. The territory of thenorthern Iroquoian tribes, of whom the Five Nations, or Iroquoisproper, were the chief, extended from the shores of the St. Lawrenceand of Lakes Huron, Ontario, and Erie south, through easternPennsylvania, to Maryland; that of the southern tribes, of whom theCherokees were chief, formed part of Virginia, the Carolinas,Georgia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. All of the tribes wereagricultural, and they were noted for large, communal houses,palisaded towns, and ability to organize, as well as for skill inwar. --n.
iroquois: A powerful and warlike confederacy of Indian tribes, formerlyinhabiting Central New York and constituting most of the FiveNations. Also, any Indian of the Iroquois tribes.
irous: Irascible; passionate. [Obs.] Chaucer.
irp: Making irps. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
irradiant: Irradiating or illuminating; as, the irradiant moon. Boyse.
irradiate: To emit rays; to shine.
irradiation: The apparent enlargement of a bright object seen upon a darkground, due to the fact that the portions of the retina around theimage are stimulated by the intense light; as when a dark spot on awhite ground appears smaller, or a white spot on a dark groundlarger, than it really is, esp. when a little out of focus.
irradicate: To root deeply. [R.]
irrational: Not capable of being exactly expressed by an integral number,or by a vulgar fraction; surd; -- said especially of roots. See Surd.
irrationality: The quality or state of being irrational. "Brutishirrationaliity." South.
irrationally: In an irrational manner. Boyle.
irrationalness: Irrationality.
irrebuttable: Incapable of being rebutted. Coleridge.
irreceptive: Not receiving; incapable of receiving.
irreclaimable: Incapable of being reclaimed. Addison.-- Ir`re*claim"a*bly, ad
irrecognition: A failure to recognize; absence of recognition. Lamb.
irrecognizable: Not recognizable. Carlyle.
irreconcilability: The quality or state of being irreconcilable;irreconcilableness.
irreconcilable: Not reconcilable; implacable; incompatible; inconsistent;disagreeing; as, irreconcilable enemies, statements.-- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*ble*ness, n.-- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*bly, adv.
irreconcile: To prevent from being reconciled; to alienate or disaffect.[Obs.]
irreconcilement: The state or quality of being unreconciled; disagreement.
irreconciliation: Want of reconciliation; disagreement.
irrecordable: Not fit or possible to be recorded.
irrecoverable: Not capable of being recovered, regained, or remedied;irreparable; as, an irrecoverable loss, debt, or injury.That which is past is gone and irrecoverable. Bacon.
irrecuperable: Irrecoverable.-- Ir`re*cu"per*a*bly, adv.
irrecured: Incurable. [Obs.]
irrecusable: Not liable to exception or rejection. Sir W. Hamilton.
irredeemability: The state or quality of being irredeemable; irredeemableness.
irredeemable: Not redeemable; that can not be redeemed; not payable in goldor silver, as a bond; -- used especially of such government notes,issued as currency, as are not convertible into coin at the pleasureof the holder.-- Ir`re*deem"a*ble*ness, adv.
irreducibility: The state or quality of being irreducible.
irreducible: Incapable of being reduced to a simpler form of expression; as,an irreducible formula. Irreducible case (Alg.), a particular case inthe solution of a cubic equation, in which the formula commonlyemployed contains an imaginary quantity, and therefore fails in itsapplication.-- Ir`re*du"ci*ble*ness, n.-- -- Ir`re*du"ci*bly, adv.
irreflection: Want of reflection.
irreflective: Not reflective. De Quincey.
irreformable: Incapable of being reformed; incorrigible. Joseph Cook.
irrefragability: The quality or state of being irrefragable; incapability ofbeing refuted.
irrefragable: Not refragable; not to be gainsaid or denied; not to be refutedor overthrown; unanswerable; incontestable; undeniable; as, anirrefragable argument; irrefragable evidence.-- Ir*ref"ra*ga*ble*ness, n.-- Ir*ref"ra*ga*bly, adv.
irrefrangibility: The quality or state of being irrefrangible; irrefrangibleness.
irrefrangible: Not refrangible; that can not be refracted in passing from onemedium to another.-- Ir`re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n.
irrefutable: Incapable of being refuted or disproved; indisputable.-- Ir`re*fut"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ir`re*fut"a*bly, adv.
irregeneracy: Unregeneracy.
irregeneration: An unregenerate state. [Obs.]
irregular: Not regular; not conforming to a law, method, or usagerecognized as the general rule; not according to common form; notconformable to nature, to the rules of moral rectitude, or toestablished principles; not normal; unnatural; immethodical;unsymmetrical; erratic; no straight; not uniform; as, an irregularline; an irregular figure; an irregular verse; an irregularphysician; an irregular proceeding; irregular motion; irregularconduct, etc. Cf. Regular.Mazes intricate, Eccentric, intervolved, yet regular Then most whenmost irregular they seem. Milton.Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular andwild Glendower. Shak.A flowery meadow through which a clear stream murmured in manyirregular meanders. Jones.
irregularist: One who is irregular. Baxter.
irregularity: The state or quality of being irregular; that which isirregular.
irregularly: In an irregular manner.
irregulate: To make irregular; to disorder. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
irregulous: Lawless. [Obs.] Shak.
irrejectable: That can not be rejected; irresistible. Boyle.
irrelapsable: Not liable to relapse; secure. Dr. H. More.
irrelate: Ir
irrelation: The quality or state of being irrelative; want of connection orrelation.
irrelative: Not relative; without mutual relations; unconnected.-- Ir*rel"a*tive*ly, adv. Irrelative chords (Mus.), those having nocommon tone.-- Irrelative repetition (Biol.), the multiplication of parts thatserve for a common purpose, but have no mutual dependence orconnection. Owen.
irrelavance: Irrelevancy.
irrelavancy: The quality or state of being irrelevant; as, the irrelevancyof an argument.
irrelavant: Not relevant; not applicable or pertinent; not bearing upon orserving to support; foreign; extraneous; as, testimony or argumentsirrelevant to a case.-- Ir*rel"a*vant*ly, adv.
irrelievable: Not admitting relief; incurable; hopeless.
irreligion: The state of being irreligious; want of religion; impiety.
irreligionist: One who is irreligious.
irreligiously: In an irreligious manner.
irreligiousness: The state or quality of being irreligious; ungodliness.
irremeable: Admitting no return; as, an irremeable way. [Obs.] Dryden.
irremediable: Not to be remedied, corrected, or redressed; incurable; as, anirremediable disease or evil.
irremediableness: The state or quality of being irremediable.
irremediably: In a manner, or to a degree, that precludes remedy, cure, orcorrection.
irremissible: Not remissible; unpardonable; as, irremissible crimes. Burke.-- Ir`re*mis"si*ble, n.-- Ir`re*mis"si*bly, adv.
irremission: Refusal of pardon.
irremissive: Not remitting; unforgiving.
irremittable: Not capable of being remitted; irremissible. Holinshed.
irremovability: The quality or state of being irremovable; immovableness.
irremovable: Not removable; immovable; inflexible. Shak.-- Ir`re*mov"a*bly, adv.
irremoval: Absence of removal.
irremunerable: Not remunerable; not capable of remuneration.
irrenowned: Not renowned. [Obs.]
irreparability: The quality or state of being irreparable; irreparableness.Sterne.
irreparable: Not reparable; not capable of being repaired, recovered,regained, or remedied; irretrievable; irremediable; as, anirreparable breach; an irreparable loss. Shak.
irreparableness: Quality of being irreparable.
irreparably: In an irreparable manner.
irrepealability: The quality or state of being irrepealable.
irrepealable: Not repealable; not capable of being repealed or revoked, as alaw.-- Ir`re*peal"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ir`re*peal"a*bly, adv.
irrepentance: Want of repentance; impenitence. Bp. Montagu.
irreprehensible: Not reprehensible; blameless; innocent.-- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n.-- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*bly, adv.
irrepresentable: Not capable of being represented or portrayed.
irrepressible: Not capable of being repressed, restrained, or controlled; as,irrepressible joy; an irrepressible conflict. W. H. Steward.
irrepressibly: In a manner or to a degree that can not be repressed.
irreproachable: Not reproachable; above reproach; not deserving reproach;blameless.He [Berkely] erred, -- and who is free from error -- but hisintentions were irreproachable. Beattie.
irreproachableness: The quality or state of being irreproachable; integrity;innocence.
irreproachably: In an irreproachable manner; blamelessly.
irreprovable: Incapable of being justly reproved; irreproachable; blameless;upright.-- Ir`re*prov"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ir`re*prov"a*bly, adv.
irreptitious: Surreptitious; spurious. [Obs.] Dr. Castell (1673).
irreputable: Disreputable. [Obs.]
irresilient: Not resilient; not recoiling or rebounding; inelastic.
irresistance: Nonresistance; passive submission.
irresistibility: The quality or state of being irrestible, irresistibleness.
irresistible: That can not be successfully resisted or opposed; superior toopposition; resistless; overpowering; as, an irresistible attraction.An irresistible law of our nature impels us to seek happiness. J. M.Mason.
irresistibleness: Quality of being irrestible.
irresistibly: In an irrestible manner.
irresistless: Irresistible. [Obs.] Glanvill.
irresolubleness: The state or quality of being irresoluble; insolubility.
irresolute: Not resolute; not decided or determined; wavering; given todoubt or irresolution.Weak and irresolute is man. Cowper.
irresolution: Want of resolution; want of decision in purpose; a fluctuationof mind, as in doubt, or between hope and fear; irresoluteness;indecision; vacillation.Irresolution on the schemes of life which offer themselves to ourchoice, and inconstancy in pursuing them, are the greatest causes ofall unhappiness. Addison.
irresolvability: The quality of being irresolvable; irresolvableness.
irresolvable: Incapable of being resolved; not separable into componentparts. Irresolvable nebulæ (Astron.), nebulæ of a cloudlikeappearance, which have not yet been resolved by the telescope intostars. Sir W. Herschel.
irresolvableness: The quality or state of being irresolvable; irresolvability.
irresolvedly: Without settled determination; in a hesitating manner;doubtfully. [R.]
irrespectively: Without regard to conditions; not making circumstances intoconsideration.Prosperity, considered absolutely and irrespectively, is better andmore desirable than adversity. South.
irrespirable: Unfit for respiration; not having the qualities necessary tosupport animal life; as, irrespirable air.
irresponsibility: Want of, or freedom from, responsibility or accountability.
irresponsibly: So as not to be responsible.
irresponsive: Not responsive; not able, ready, or inclined to respond.
irresuscitable: Incapable of being resuscitated or revived.-- Ir`re*sus"ci*ta*bly, adv.
irretention: Want of retaining power; forgetfulness. De Quincey.
irretentive: Not retentive; as, an irretentive memory.
irretraceable: Incapable of being retraced; not retraceable.
irretrievable: Not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable; as, anirretrievable loss.
irretrievableness: The state or quality of being irretrievable.
irretrievably: In an irretrievable manner.
irreturnable: Not to be returned.
irrevealable: Incapable of being revealed.-- Ir`re*veal"a*bly, adv.
irreverence: The state or quality of being irreverent; want of properreverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior.
irreverend: Irreverent. [Obs.]Immodest speech, or irreverend gesture. Strype.
irreverent: Not reverent; showing a want of reverence; expressive of a wantof veneration; as, an irreverent babbler; an irreverent jest.
irreverently: In an irreverent manner.
irreversibility: The state or quality of being irreversible; irreversibleness.
irreversible steering gear: A steering gear, esp. for an automobile, not affected by theroad wheels, as when they strike an obstacle side ways, but easilycontrolled by the hand wheel or steering lever.
irreversibleness: The state or quality of being irreversible.
irreversibly: In an irreversible manner.
irrevocability: The state or quality of being irrevocable; irrevocableness.
irrevocable: Incapable of being recalled or revoked; unchangeable;irreversible; unalterable; as, an irrevocable promise or decree;irrevocable fate.Firm and irrevocable is my doom. Shak.-- Ir*rev"o*ca*ble*ness, n.-- Ir*rev"o*ca*bly, adv.
irrevokable: Irrevocable. [R.]
irrevoluble: That has no finite period of revolution; not revolving. [R.]The dateless and irrevocable circle of eternity. Milton.
irrhetorical: Not rethorical.
irrigate: To water, as land, by causing a stream to flow upon, over, orthrough it, as in artificial channels.
irrigation: The act or process of irrigating, or the state of beingirrigated; especially, the operation of causing water to flow overlands, for nourishing plants.
irrisible: Not risible. [R.]
irrision: The act of laughing at another; derision.This being spoken scepticè, or by way of irrision. Chapman.
irritability: A natural susceptibility, characteristic of all livingorganisms, tissues, and cells, to the influence of certain stimuli,response being manifested in a variety of ways, -- as that quality inplants by which they exhibit motion under suitable stimulation; esp.,the property which living muscle processes, of responding either to adirect stimulus of its substance, or to the stimulating influence ofits nerve fibers, the response being indicated by a change of form,or contraction; contractility.
irritable: Endowed with irritability; susceptible of irritation; capableof being excited to action by the application of certain stimuli.
irritableness: Irritability.
irritably: In an irritable manner.
irritancy: The state or quality of being null and void; invalidity;forfeiture. Burrill.
irritant: Rendering null and void; conditionally invalidating.The states elected Harry, Duke of Anjou, for their king, with thisclause irritant; that, if he did violate any part of his oath, thepeople should owe him no allegiance. Hayward.
irritate: To render null and void. [R.] Abp. Bramhall.
irritation: The act of exciting, or the condition of being excited toaction, by stimulation; -- as, the condition of an organ of sense,when its nerve is affected by some external body; esp., the act ofexciting muscle fibers to contraction, by artificial stimulation; as,the irritation of a motor nerve by electricity; also, the conditionof a muscle and nerve, under such stimulation.
irritatory: Exciting; producing irritation; irritating. [R.] Hales.
irrorate: To sprinkle or moisten with dew; to bedew. [Obs.]
irroration: The act of bedewing; the state of being moistened with de[Obs.] Chambers.
irrotational: Not rotatory; passing from one point to another by a movementother than rotation; -- said of the movement of parts of a liquid oryielding mass. Sir W. Thomson.
irrubrical: Contrary to the rubric; not rubrical.
irrugate: To wrinkle. [Obs.]
irrupted: Broken with violence.
irruptive: Rushing in or upon.
irvingite: The common designation of one a sect founded by the Rev. EdwardIrving (about 1830), who call themselves the Catholic ApostolicChurch. They are highly ritualistic in worship, have an elaboratehierarchy of apostles, prophets, etc., and look for the speedy comingof Christ.
is: The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in theindicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man. See Be.
is-: . See Iso-.
isabella grape: A favorite sweet American grape of a purple color. See Foxgrape, under Fox.
isabella moth: A common American moth (Pyrrharctia isabella), of an isabellacolor. The larva, called woolly bear and hedgehog caterpillar, isdensely covered with hairs, which are black at each end of the body,and red in the middle part.
isabelline: Of an isabel or isabella color.
isagoge: An introduction. [Obs.] Harris.
isagogics: That part of theological science directly preliminary to actualexegesis, or interpretation of the Scriptures.
isagon: A figure or polygon whose angles are equal.
isapostolic: Having equal, or almost equal, authority with the apostles oftheir teachings.
isatide: A white crystalline substance obtained by the partial reductionof isatin. [Written also isatyde.]
isatin: An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by theoxidation of indigo blue. It is also produced from certainderivatives of benzoic acid, and is one important source ofartificial indigo. [Written also, less properly, isatine.]
isatis: A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatistinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad.
isatogen: A complex nitrogenous radical, C8H4NO2, regarded as theessential residue of a series of compounds, related to isatin, whicheasily pass by reduction to indigo blue.-- I*sat`o*gen"ic, a.
isatropic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine,and isomeric with cinnamic acid.
ischiac: See Ischial.
ischiadic: Ischial. [R.] Ischiadic passion or disease (Med.), a rheumaticor neuralgic affection of some part about the hip joint; -- calledalso sciatica.
ischial: Of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic;ischiatic. Ischial callosity (Zoöl.), one of the patches of thickenedhairless, and often bright-colored skin, on the buttocks of manyapes, as the drill.
ischiatic: Same as Ishial.
ischiocapsular: Of or pertaining to the ischium and the capsule of the hipjoint; as, the ischiocapsular ligament.
ischiocerite: The third joint or the antennæ of the Crustacea.
ischiopodite: The third joint of the typical appendages of Crustacea.
ischiorectal: Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishialtuberosity.
ischuretic: Having the quality of relieving ischury.-- n.
ischury: A retention or suppression of urine.
isentropic: Having equal entropy. Isentropic lines, lines which passthrough points having equal entropy.
isethionic: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid,HO.C2H4.SO3H, obtained as an oily or crystalline substance, by theaction of sulphur trioxide on alcohol or ether. It is derivative ofsulphuric acid.
ishmaelitish: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or theIshmaelites.
isiac: Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries.
isicle: A icicle. [Obs.]
isidorian: Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidoriandecretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninthcentury.
isinglass: A popular name for mica, especially when in thin sheets.
isis: The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She wasregarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris.The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as thegreat benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestorsin the art of agriculture.
islamism: The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans;Mohammedanism; Islam.
islamite: A Mohammedan.
islamitic: Of or pertaining to Islam; Mohammedan.
islamize: To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam.
island: See Isle, n., 2. Islands of the blessed (Myth.), islandssupposed to lie in the Western Ocean, where the favorites of the godsare conveyed at death, and dwell in everlasting joy.
islander: An inhabitant of an island.
islandy: Of or pertaining to islands; full of islands. Cotgrave.
isle: See Aisle.
islet: A little island.
ism: A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory.E. Everett.The world grew light-headed, and forth came a spawn of isms which noman can number. S. G. Goodrich.
isobar: A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of theearth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the sameeither at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as fora year; an isopiestic line. [Written also isobare.]
isobaric: Denoting equal pressure; as, an isobaric line; specifically, ofor pertaining to isobars.
isobarism: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially inatmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application ofisobaric science.
isobarometric: Indicating equal barometric pressure.
isobathytherm: A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth wherea certain temperature is found at the same depth.
isobathythermic: Of or pertaining to an isobathytherm; possessing or indicatingthe same temperature at the same depth.
isobront: An imaginary line, or a line on a chart, marking thesimultaneous development of a thunderstorm, as noted by observing thetime when the thunder is heard at different places.
isocephalism: A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads ofhuman figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whetherthe personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; --called also isokephaleia.
isochasm: A line connecting places on the earth's surface at which thereis the same mean frequency of auroras.
isochasmic: Indicating equal auroral display; as, an isochasmic line.
isocheim: A line connecting places on the earth having the same meanwinter temperature. Cf. Isothere.
isocheimic: The same as Isocheimal.
isochimene: The same as Isocheim.
isochor: A line upon a thermodynamic diagram so drawn as to representthe pressures corresponding to changes of temperature when the volumeof the gas operated on is constant. -- I`so*chor"ic (#), a.
isochromatic: Having the same color; connecting parts having the same color,as lines drawn through certain points in experiments on the chromaticeffects of polarized light in crystals.
isochronal: Uniform in time; of equal time; performed in equal times;recurring at regular intervals; isochronal vibrations oroscillations.
isochronic: Isochronal.
isochronism: The state or quality of being isochronous.
isochronize: To make, or tend to make (the motion of a moving body), uniformin rate of rotation, or in frequency of vibration.
isochronon: A clock that is designed to keep very accurate time.
isochronous: Same as Isochronal.
isochroous: Having the same tint or color throughout; uniformly or evenlycolored.
isocrymal: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or illustrating, anisocryme; as, an isocrymal line; an isocrymal chart.
isocryme: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the samemean temperature in the coldest month of the year.
isocrymic: Isocrymal.
isocyanic: Designating an acid isomeric with cyanic acid. Isocyanic acid,an acid metameric with cyanic acid, and resembling it in its salts.It is obtained as a colorless, mobile, unstable liquid by the heatingcyanuric acid. Called technically carbimide.
isocyanuric: Designating, or pertaining to, an acid isomeric with cyanuricacid, and called also fulminuric acid. See under Fulminuric.
isodiabatic: Pertaining to the reception or the giving out of equalquantities of heat by a substance. Rankine. Isodiabatic lines orcurves, a pair of lines or curves exhibiting, on a diagram of energy,the law of variation of the pressure and density of a fluid, the oneduring the lowering, and the other during the raising, of itstemperature, when the quantity of heat given out by the fluid duringany given stage of the one process is equal to the quantity receivedduring the corresponding stage of the other. Such lines are said tobe isodiabatic with respect to each other. Compare Adiabatic.
isodiametric: Developed alike in the directions of the several lateral axes;-- said of crystals of both the tetragonal and hexagonal systems.
isodimorphic: Isodimorphous.
isodimorphism: Isomorphism between the two forms severally of two dimorphoussubstances.
isodimorphous: Having the quality of isodimorphism.
isodrome: A method of moving a fleet from one formation to another, thedirection usually being changed eight points (90º), by means of pathsof equal length for each ship. It is prohibited in the United Statesnavy.
isodulcite: A white, crystalline, sugarlike substance, obtained by thedecomposition of certain glucosides, and intermediate in naturebetween the hexacid alcohols (ductile, mannite, etc.) and theglucoses.
isodynamic: Of, pertaining to, having, or denoting, equality of force.Isodynamic foods (Physiol.), those foods that produce a similaramount of heat.-- Isodynamic lines (Magnetism), lines on the earth's surfaceconnecting places at which the magnetic intensity is the same.
isodynamous: Of equal force or size.
isogeotherm: A line or curved surface passing beneath the earth's surfacethrough points having the same mean temperature.
isogonic: Pertaining to, or noting, equal angles. Isogonic lines(Magnetism), lines traced on the surface of the globe, or upon achart, connecting places at which the deviation of the magneticneedle from the meridian or true north is the same.
isogonism: The quality of having similar sexual zooids or gonophores anddissimilar hydrants; -- said of certain hydroids.
isographic: Of or pertaining to isography.
isography: Imitation of another's handwriting,
isohyetose: Of or pertaining to lines connecting places on the earth'ssurface which have a mean annual rainfall.-- n.
isolable: Capable of being isolated, or of being obtained in a purestate; as, gold is isolable.
isolate: To insulate. See Insulate.
isolated: Placed or standing alone; detached; separated from others.Isolated point of a curve. (Geom.) See Acnode.
isolatedly: In an isolated manner.
isolation: The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated;insulation; separation; loneliness. Milman.
isolator: One who, or that which, isolates.
isologous: Having similar proportions, similar relations, or similardifferences of composition; -- said specifically of groups or serieswhich differ by a constant difference; as, ethane, ethylene, anacetylene, or their analogous compounds, form an isologous series.
isomer: A body or compound which is isomeric with another body orcompound; a member of an isomeric series.
isomeric: Having the same percentage composition; -- said of two or moredifferent substances which contain the same ingredients in the sameproportions by weight, often used with with. Specif.
isomeride: An isomer. [R.]
isomerism: The state, quality, or relation, of two or more isomericsubstances. Physical isomerism (Chem.), the condition or relation ofcertain (metameric) substances, which, while chemically identical (inthat they have the same composition, the same molecular weights, andthe same ultimate constitution), are yet physically different, as intheir action on polarized light, as dextro- and lævo-tartaric acids.In such compounds there is usually at least one unsymmetrical carbonatom. See Unsymmetrical.
isomeromorphism: Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.
isomorph: A substance which is similar to another in crystalline form andcomposition.
isomorphic: Isomorphous.
isomorphism: A similarity of crystalline form between substances of similarcomposition, as between the sulphates of barium (BaSO4) and strontium(SrSO4). It is sometimes extended to include similarity of formbetween substances of unlike composition, which is more properlycalled homoeomorphism.
isomorphous: Having the quality of isomorphism.
isonandra: A genus of sapotaceous trees of India. Isonandra Gutta is theprincipal source of gutta-percha.
isonephelic: Having, or indicating, an equal amount of cloudiness for agiven period; as, isonephelic regions; an isonephelic line.
isonicotine: A crystalline, nitrogenous base, C10H14N2, isomeric withnicotine.
isonitroso-: A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying:Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenousradical, NOH, called the isonitroso group.
isonomic: The same, or equal, in law or right; one in kind or origin;analogous; similar. Dana.
isonomy: Equal law or right; equal distribution of rights andprivileges; similarity.
isopepsin: Pepsin modified by exposure to a temperature of from 40º to 60C.
isoperimetrical: Having equal perimeters of circumferences; as, isoperimetricalfigures or bodies.
isoperimetry: The science of figures having equal perimeters or boundaries.
isopiestic: Having equal pressure. Isopiestic lines, lines showing, in adiagram, the relations of temperature and volume, when the elasticforce is constant; -- called also isobars.
isopleura: A subclass of Gastropoda, in which the body is symmetrical, theright and left sides being equal.
isopod: Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.-- n.
isopoda: An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairsof legs, which are all similar in structure.
isopodiform: Having the shape of an isopod; -- said of the larvæ of certaininsects.
isopodous: Same as Isopod.
isopogonous: Having the two webs equal in breath; -- said of feathers.
isoprene: An oily, volatile hydrocarbon, obtained by the distillation ofcaoutchouc or guttaipercha.C5H8 -- unsaturated, and used to makesynthetic rubber by polymerization. In organic chemistry, viewedconceptually as the building block of the terpene series ofhydrocarbons
isopycnic: Having equal density, as different regions of a medium; passingthrough points at which the density is equal; as, an isopycnic lineor surface.
isorcin: A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, butproduced artificially; -- called also cresorcin.
isorropic: Of equal value. Isorropic line (in a diagram) (Geom.), thelocus of all the points for which a specified function has a constantvalue. Newcomb.
isosceles: Having two legs or sides that are equal; -- said of a triangle.
isospondyli: An extensive order of fishes, including the salmons, herrings,and many allied forms.
isospondylous: Of or pertaining to the Isospondyli; having the anteriorvertebræ separate and normal.
isosporic: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta. Cf.Heterosporic.
isosporous: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns.
isostasy: The state or quality of being isostatic. Specif. (Geol.),
isostatic: Subjected to equal pressure from every side; being inhydrostatic equilibrium, as a body submerged in a liquid at rest;pertaining to, or characterized by, isostasy.
isostemonous: Having exactly as many stamens as petals.
isostemony: The quality or state of being isostemonous.
isosulphocyanate: A salt of isosulphocyanic acid.
isosulphocyanic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, HNCS, isomeric withsulphocyanic acid.
isotheral: Having the nature of an isothere; indicating the distributionof temperature by means of an isothere; as, an isotheral chart orline.
isothere: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the samemean summer temperature.
isotherm: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surfacehaving the same temperature. This may be the temperature for a giventime of observation, or the mean temperature for a year or otherperiod. Also, a similar line based on the distribution of temperaturein the ocean.
isothermobath: A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a verticalsection of the ocean.
isothermobathic: Of or pertaining to an isothermobath; possessing or indicatingequal temperatures in a vertical section, as of the ocean.
isotherombrose: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface,which have the same mean summer rainfall.
isotonic: Having or indicating, equal tones, or tension. Isotonic system(Mus.), a system consisting of intervals, in which each concord isalike tempered, and in which there are twelve equal semitones.
isotrimorphic: Isotrimorphous.
isotrimorphism: Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of twotrimorphous substances.
isotrimorphous: Having the quality of isotrimorphism; isotrimorphic.
isotropic: Having the same properties in all directions; specifically,equally elastic in all directions.
isotropism: Isotropy.
isotropous: Isotropic.
isotropy: Uniformity of physical properties in all directions in a body;absence of all kinds of polarity; specifically, equal elasticity inall directions.
isouric: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid,isomeric with uric acid.
israelite: A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.
issuably: In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably.
issuance: The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of anorder; the issuance of rations, and the like.
issuant: Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge orbearing rising or coming out of another.
issue: An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the armor leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the reliefof some affected part.
issueless: Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . haveleft me issueless." Shak.
issuer: One who issues, emits, or publishes.
isthmian: Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus ofCorinth, in Greece. Isthmian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the fourgreat national festivals of Greece, celebrated on the Isthmus ofCorinth in the spring of every alternate year. They consisted of allkinds of athletic sports, wrestling, boxing, racing on foot and inchariots, and also contests in music and poetry. The prize was agarland of pine leaves.
isthmus: A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents areconnected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, theIsthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces.(Anat.) See Fauces.
istle: Same as Ixtle.
isuret: An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forminga white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine.
it: The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to themasculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural(they, their of theirs, them).
ita palm: A magnificent species of palm (Mauritia flexuosa), growing nearthe Orinoco. The natives eat its fruit and buds, drink its sap, andmake thread and cord from its fiber.
itacism: Pronunciation of e in the English word be. This was thepronunciation advocated by ReuEtacism.In all such questions between a the confusing element of itacismcomes in. Alford.
itacist: One who is in favor of itacism.
itacolumite: A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring inregions where the diamond is found.
itaconic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which isobtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic andother organic acids.
itala: An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament wastranslated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italicversion).
italian: Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language.Italian cloth a light material of cotton and worsted; -- called alsofarmer's satin.-- Italian iron, a heater for fluting frills.-- Italian juice, Calabrian liquorice.
italianate: To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; toItalianize. [R.] Ascham.
italic: An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); --often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic lettersare used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis,etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters.
italicize: To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters orwords with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes toomuch.
itch: An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, producedby the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), andattended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.
itchiness: The state of being itchy.
itchless: Free from itching.
itchy: Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. Cowper.
item: Also; as an additional article.
itemize: To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the costof a railroad. [Local, U. S.]
iter: A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourthventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius.
iterable: Capable of being iterated or repeated. [Obs.]
iterance: Iteration. [Obs.]
iterant: Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo. Bacon.
iterate: Uttered or done again; repeated. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner.
iteration: Recital or performance a second time; repetition. Bacon.What needs this iteration, woman Shak.
iterative: Repeating. Cotgrave.-- It"er*a*tive*ly, adv.
ithyphallic: Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene.
itineracy: The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy.
itinerant: Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on acircuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; anitinerant peddler.The king's own courts were then itinerant, being kept in the king'spalace, and removing with his household in those royal progresseswhich he continually made. Blackstone.
itinerantly: In an itinerant manner.
itinerary: Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on ajourney.It was rather an itinerary circuit of justice than a progress. Bacon.
itinerate: To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place oron a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing,etc.
its: Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.
itself: The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good initself; it stands by itself.Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich orpoor. Locke.
ittria: See Yttria.
ittrium: See Yttrium.
itzibu: A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Writtenalso itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.]
iulidan: One of the Iulidæ, a family of myriapods, of which the genusIulus is the type. See Iulus.
iulus: A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round,consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bearstwo pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. SeeChilognatha.
ivan ivanovitch: . An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of theRussian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typicalEnglishman.
ivied: Overgrown with ivy.
ivoride: A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as asubstitute for it.
ivory: Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. Seeunder Black, n.-- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus).-- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephasmacroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seedcontains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close-grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in textureand color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought intovarious articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in NewGrenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. Thenuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts.-- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts.-- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marinegastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red orbrown spots.-- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut(above).
ivory-bill: A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilusprincipalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its generalcolor is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsalstripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, andfound only in the Gulf States.
ivorytype: A picture produced by superposing a very light print, renderedtranslucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a strongerprint, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; --called also hellenotype. Knight.
ivy: A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Itsleaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed;the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. Thestem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers.Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton.Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton.American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper.-- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper(Hedera helix).-- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulentstems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S.scandens).-- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma).-- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain.-- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl.-- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson.-- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata),closely related to the Virginia creeper.-- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (RhusToxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries.It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons.-- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can.[Obs.] Chaucer.-- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia.
ivy-mantled: Covered with ivy.
iwis: Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.][Obs.] Ascham.
ixia: A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkablefor the brilliancy of its flowers.
ixodes: A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species ofticks. See Tick, the insect.
ixodian: A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidæ.
izard: A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.
izedi: One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or theDevil.The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain anumerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacentcountries. Tylor.
izedism: The religion of the Izedis.
izzard: See Izard.
j: . J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a latervariant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantalsound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The formsJ and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and theyhave been used interchangeably.
jaal goat: A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountainsof Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, andjaela.
jab: To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq.U. S.]
jabber: To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to uttergibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift.
jabberer: One who jabbers.
jabberingly: In a jabbering manner.
jabberment: Jabber. [R.] Milton.
jabbernowl: Same as Jobbernowl.
jabiru: One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria andXenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.
jaborandi: The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpuspennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic andsialogogue.
jaborine: An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it isextracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resemblesatropine.
jacal: In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind ofplastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber inthe ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork,and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, thismethod of construction.
jacamar: Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of thegenus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers,but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects.Their colors are often brilliant.
jacana: Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana andseveral allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They areable to run about over floating water weeds by means of their verylong, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.
jacare: A cayman. See Yacare.
jacchus: The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name wasalso applied to other species of the same genus.
jacconet: See Jaconet.
jacent: Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.
jacinth: See Hyacinth. Tennyson.
jack: A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the EastIndies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs inhaving its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing fromthirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter arescattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of ayellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used incabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Writtenalso jak.]
jack ketch: A public executioner, or hangman. [Eng.]The manor of Tyburn was formerly held by Richard Jaquett, wherefelons for a long time were executed; from whence we have Jack Ketch.Lloyd's MS., British Museum.[Monmouth] then accosted John Ketch, the executioner, a wretch whohad butchered many brave and noble victims, and whose name has,during a century and a half, been vulgarly given to all who havesucceeded him in his odious office. Macaulay.
jack-a-dandy: A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.
jack-a-lent: A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simplefellow.
jackal: Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabitingAfrica and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly,nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and arenoted for their piercing and dismal howling.
jackanapes: A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, orotherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life.[Colloq., Australia]
jackaroo: To be a jackaroo; to pass one's time as a jackaroo. [Colloq.,Australia]
jackdaw: See Daw, n.
jackeen: A drunken, dissolute fellow. [Ireland] S. C. Hall.
jacket: In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcingthe tube in which the charge is fired.
jacketed: Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.
jacketing: The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.
jackknife: A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.
jackman: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKPOTJackpot
jackpudding: A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Milton.
jacksaw: The merganser.
jackscrew: A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exertingpressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.
jackslave: A low servant; a mean fellow. Shak.
jacksmith: A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c. Dryden.
jackstay: A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, towhich the sails are fastened.
jackwood: Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used incabinetwork.
jacob: A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews),who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12);-- also called Israel.And Jacob said . . . with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and nowI am become two bands. Gen. xxxii. 9, 10.Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. Gen. xxxii. 28.Jacob's ladder. (a) (Bot.) A perennial herb of the genus Polemonium(P. coeruleum), having corymbs of drooping flowers, usually blue.Gray. (b) (Naut.) A rope ladder, with wooden steps, for going aloft.R. H. Dana, Jr. (c) (Naut.) A succession of short cracks in adefective spar.-- Jacob's membrane. See Retina.-- Jacob's staff. (a) A name given to many forms of staff or weapon,especially in the Middle Ages; a pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Spenser. (b)(Surveying) See under Staff.
jacobaean lily: A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, or Sprekelia, formosissima) fromMexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower.[Written also Jacobean.]
jacobin: A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the FrenchRevolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.
jacobine: A Jacobin.
jacobinism: The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious oppositionto legitimate government.Under this new stimulus, Burn's previous Jacobitism passed towardsthe opposite, but not very distant, extreme of Jacobinism. J. C.Shairp.
jacobinize: To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.France was not then jacobinized. Burke.
jacobite: A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after hisabdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in1688 in favor of William and Mary. Macaulay.
jacobitism: The principles of the Jacobites. Mason.
jacobus: An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillingssterling, struck in the reign of James I.
jaconet: A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses,neckcloths, etc. [Written also jacconet.]
jacquard: Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician,who died in 1834. Jacquard apparatus or arrangement, a device appliedto looms for weaving figured goods, consisting of mechanismcontrolled by a chain of variously perforated cards, which cause thewarp threads to be lifted in the proper succession for producing therequired figure.-- Jacquard card, one of the perforated cards of a Jacquardapparatus.-- Jackquard loom, a loom with Jacquard apparatus.
jacqueminot: A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- sonamed after General Jacqueminot, of France.
jacquerie: The name given to a revolt of French peasants against thenobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, JacquesBonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt ofpeasants.
jactancy: A boasting; a bragging. [Obs.]
jactation: A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation. Sir.W. Temple.
jactitation: Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice ofanother's right; false claim. Mozley & W.
jaculable: Fit for throwing. [Obs.]
jaculate: To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.
jaculation: The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire. Milton.
jaculator: The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator).
jaculatory: Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out;uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.Smart.
jadding: See Holing.
jade: A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimeswhitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and isused for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Easterncountries and among many early peoples.
jadeite: See Jade, the stone.
jadery: The tricks of a jade.
jaeger: See Jager.
jag: A cleft or division. Jag bolt, a bolt with a nicked or barbedshank which resists retraction, as when leaded into stone.
jager: A sharpshooter. See Yager.
jagg: See Jag.
jagged: Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, orteeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. " Jagged vineleaves' shade." Trench.-- Jag"ged*ly, adv.-- Jag"ged*ness, n.
jagger: One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
jaggery: Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating thefresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that ofthe palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis). [Written also jagghery.]
jaggery palm: An East Indian palm (Caryota urens) having leaves pinnate withwedge-shaped divisions, the petiole very stout. It is the principalsource of jaggery, and is often cultivated for ornament.
jaggy: Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.Addison.
jaghir: A village or district the government and revenues of which areassigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service tobe rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. [Written also jaghire,jagir, etc.] [India] Whitworth.
jaghirdar: The holder of a jaghir.
jagua palm: A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immensespathes which are used for baskets and tubs.
jaguar: A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging fromTexas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, withlarge, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one ortwo dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also theAmerican tiger.
jaguarondi: A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long,slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, variedwith a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly onbirds.
jah: Jehovah. Ps. lxviii. 4.
jail: A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of personsheld in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or withreference to some future judicial proceeding. [Written also gaol.]This jail I count the house of liberty. Milton.Jail bird, a prisoner; one who has been confined in prison. [Slang] -- Jail delivery, the release of prisoners from jail, either legallyor by violence.-- Jail delivery commission. See under Gaol.-- Jail fever (Med.), typhus fever, or a disease resembling it,generated in jails and other places crowded with people; -- calledalso hospital fever, and ship fever.-- Jail liberties, or Jail limits, a space or district around a jailwithin which an imprisoned debtor was, on certain conditions, allowedto go at large. Abbott.-- Jail lock, a peculiar form of padlock; -- called alsoScandinavian lock.
jailer: The keeper of a jail or prison. [Written also jailor, gaoler.]
jainism: The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most strikingfeatures are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins,above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine originand infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanismand Buddhism, having some things in common with each.
jairou: The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.
jak: see Ils Jack.
jakes: A privy. Shak.
jakie: A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkablefor having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called alsoparadoxical frog.
jako: An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept asa cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.
jakwood: See Jackwood.
jalap: The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogoniumpurga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract,and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgativemedicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds ofjalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa. False jalap, the rootof Mirabilis Jalapa, four-o'clock, or marvel of Peru.
jalapic: Of or pertaining to jalap.
jalapin: A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony.It is a strong purgative.
jalons: Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks andsignals. Farrow.
jalousie: A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.
jalousied: Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.
jam: A kind of frock for children.
jamacina: Jamaicine.
jamadar: Same as Jemidar.
jamaica: One of the West India is islands. Jamaica ginger, a variety ofginger, called also white ginger, prepared in Jamaica from the bestroots, which are deprived of their epidermis and dried separately.-- Jamaica pepper, allspice.-- Jamaica rose (Bot.), a West Indian melastomaceous shrub (Blakeatrinervis), with showy pink flowers.
jamaican: Of or pertaining to Jamaica.-- n.
jamaicine: An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroyainermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- calledalso jamacina. Watts.
jamb: The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace;hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the ofa chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face. Gwilt.
jambee: A fashionable cane. [Obs.] Tatler.
jambolana: A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America(Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing. Itbears an edible fruit.
jambooree: A noisy or unrestrained carousal or frolic; a spree. [Slang]Kipling.
jamdani: A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers.[Written also jamdanee.] Balfour (Cyc. of India).
jamesonite: A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrousmassive. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead, with a little iron.
jamestown weed: The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), arank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.
jan: One of intermediate order between angels and men.
jane-of-apes: A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes. Massinger.
jangle: To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to producediscordant sounds with.Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh. Shak.
jangleress: A female prater or babbler.
janglery: Jangling. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jangling: Producing discordant sounds. "A jangling noise." Milton.
janissary: See Janizary.
janitor: A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a publicbuilding, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.
janizar: A janizary. [R.] Byron.
janizarian: Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government. Burke.
janizary: A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed thenucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826. [writtenalso janissary.]
janker: A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs. [Scot.]Jamieson.
jansenism: The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace.
jansenist: A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop ofYpres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrinesdenying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace.
jant: See Jaunt.
janthina: See Ianthina.
jantily: See Jauntily.
jantiness: See Jauntiness.
jantu: A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising waterto irrigate land. Knight.
janty: See Jaunty.
january: The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
janus: A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in oppositedirections. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the coveredpassage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Templeof Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace. Dr. W.Smith. Janus cloth, a fabric having both sides dressed, the sidesbeing of different colors, -- used for reversible garments.
janus-faced: Double-faced; deceitful. Janus-faced lock, one having duplicatefaces so as to go upon a right or a left hand door, the key enteringon either side indifferently. Knight.
janus-headed: Double-headed.
japan: Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, thevarnish or lacquer used in japanning.
japan current: A branch of the equatorial current of the Pacific, washing theeastern coast of Formosa and thence flowing northeastward past Japanand merging into the easterly drift of the North Pacific; -- calledalso Kuro-Siwo, or Black Stream, in allusion to the deep blue of itswater. It is similar in may ways to the Gulf Stream.
japanese: Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants.
japanned: Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner.Japanned leather,leather treated with coatings of Japan varnish, anddried in a stove. Knight.
japanning: The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner.
japannish: After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles.Carlyle.
jape: To jest; to play tricks; to jeer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
japer: A jester; a buffoon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
japery: Jesting; buffoonery. [Obs.] Chaucer.
japhethite: A Japhetite. Kitto.
japhetic: Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons ofNoah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia;Japhetic languages.
japhetite: A descendant of Japheth.
japonica: A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan,bearing beautiful red or white flowers. Many other genera havespecies of the same name.
japonism: A quality, idiom, or peculiarity characteristic of the Japaneseor their products, esp. in art.
jar: A turn. [Only in phrase.] On the jar, on the turn, ajar, as adoor.
jar-owl: The goatsucker.
jararaca: A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), abouteighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated withred and black spots.
jarble: To wet; to bemire. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
jardiniere: An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc.,used as a piece of decorative furniture in room.
jards: A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock.
jargle: To emit a harsh or discordant sound. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
jargon: Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, anartificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang. "A barbarousjargon." Macaulay. "All jargon of the schools." Prior.The jargon which serves the traffickers. Johnson.
jargonelle: A variety of pear which ripens early.
jargonic: Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon.
jargonist: One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang. Macaulay.
jarl: A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in theDanish and Norse invasions. Longfellow.
jarnut: An earthnut. Dr. Prior.
jarosite: An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedralcrystals. It is a hydrous sulphate of iron and potash.
jarrah: The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata.See Eucalyptus.
jarring: Shaking; disturbing; discordant. "A jarring sound." Dryden.
jarringly: In a jarring or discordant manner.
jasey: A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, orresembling, Jersey yarn. Thackeray.
jashawk: A young hawk. Booth.
jasmine: A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of apeculiarly fragrant odor. The J. officinale, common in the south ofEurope, bears white flowers. The Arabian jasmine is J. Sambac, and,with J. angustifolia, comes from the East Indies. The yellow falsejasmine in the Gelseminum sempervirens (see Gelsemium). Several otherplants are called jasmine in the West Indies, as species ofCalotropis and Faramea. [Written also jessamine.] Cape jasmine, orCape jessamine, the Gardenia florida, a shrub with fragrant whiteflowers, a native of China, and hardy in the Southern United States.
jasp: Jasper. [Obs.] Spenser.
jaspachate: Agate jasper. [Obs.]
jaspe: Having the surface decorated with cloudings and streaks,somewhat as if imitating jasper.
jasper: An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and otherdull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a highpolish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When thecolors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped or bandedjasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. Jasper opal,a yellow variety of opal resembling jasper.-- Jasper ware, a delicate kind of earthenware invented by JosiahWedgwood. It is usually white, but is capable of receiving color.
jasperated: mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as,jasperated agate.
jasperize: To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.Polished specimens of jasperized and agatized woods. Pop. Sci.Monthly.
jaspery: Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.
jaspilite: A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper.
jaspoid: Resembling jasper. [R.]
jasponyx: An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper.
jatrophic: Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of thegenus Jatropha.
jaunce: To ride hard; to jounce. [Obs.]Spurr'd, galled and tired by jauncing Bolingbroke. Shak.
jaundice: A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes,skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness inthe region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor andlassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliarypassages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, whichis then absorbed into the blood. Blue jaundice. See Cyanopathy.
jaunt: To jolt; to jounce. [Obs.] Bale.
jauntily: In a jaunty manner.
jauntiness: The quality of being jaunty.That jauntiness of air I was once master of. Addison.
jaunty: Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected orfantastical manner.
javanese: Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java.-- n. sing. & pl.
javel: A vagabond. [Obs.] Spenser.
javelin: A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand;anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; nowused chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game.Flies the javelin swifter to its mark, Launched by the vigor of aRoman arm Addison.
javelinier: A soldier armed with a javelin. Holland.
jaw: The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle soas to move freely on a mast.
jaw-fall: Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits. M.Griffith (1660).
jaw-fallen: Dejected; chopfallen.
jawbone: The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible.
jawed: Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed."Jawed like a jetty." Skelton.
jawfoot: See Maxilliped.
jawing: Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley.
jawn: See Yawn. [Obs.] Marston.
jawy: Relating to the jaws. Gayton.
jay: Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus,Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but aresmaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usuallyhave a crest.
jayet: See Jet. [Obs.]
jayhawker: A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man orguerrilla.
jazel: A gem of an azure color. [Obs.]
jazerant: A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed uponlinen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, acoat of jazerant.
jealoushood: Jealousy. [Obs.] Shak.
jealously: In a jealous manner.
jealousness: State or quality of being jealous.
jealousy: The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude;painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one'shappiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, orlover.I was jealous for jealousy. Zech. viii. 2.Jealousy is the . . . apprehension of superiority. Shenstone.Whoever had qualities to alarm our jealousy, had excellence todeserve our fondness. Rambler.
jeames: A footman; a flunky. [Slang, Eng.] Thackeray.
jean: A twilled cotton cloth. Satin jean, a kind of jean woven smoothand glossy, after the manner of satin.
jears: See 1st Jeer (b).
jeat: See Jet. [Obs.]
jedding ax: A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part.Knight.
jee: See Gee.
jeel: A morass; a shallow lake. [Written also jhil.] [India]Whitworth.
jeer: An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting orlowering the lower yards of a ship. Jeer capstan (Naut.), an extracapstan usually placed between the foremast and mainmast.
jeerer: A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.
jeering: Mocking; scoffing.-- n.
jeers: See 1st Jeer (b).
jeffersonia: An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, anddeeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.
jeffersonian: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or hispolicy or political doctrines. Lowell.
jeffersonian simplicity: The absence of pomp or display which Jefferson aimed at in hisadministration as President (1801-1809), eschewing display orceremony tending to distinguish the President from the people, as ingoing to the capital on horseback and with no escort, the abolitionof court etiquette and the weekly levee, refusal to recognize titlesof honor, etc.
jeffersonite: A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown.It contains zinc.
jeg: See Jig, 6.
jehovah: A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealedto the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the"ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced bythe Jews.
jehovistic: Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- saidof certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch,in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity. See Elohistic.
jehu: A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.[Colloq.]
jejunal: Pertaining to the jejunum.
jejunity: The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.
jejunum: The middle division of the small intestine, between theduodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty afterdeath.
jelerang: A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Javaand Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel.
jell: To jelly. [Colloq.]
jellied: Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.
jellify: To make, or to become, gelatinous; to jelly. --Jel`li*fi*ca"tion (#), n.
jelly: To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly.
jellyfish: Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, havinga jellylike appearance. See Medusa.
jemidar: The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in thenative army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that oflieutenant in the English army. [Written also jemadar, jamadar.]
jemlah goat: The jharal.
jemminess: Spruceness. [Slang, Eng.] Pegge (1814).
jemmy: Spruce. [Slang, Eng.] Smart.
jeniquen: A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var.Sisalana); also, its fiber. [Written also heniequen.]
jenite: See Yenite.
jenkins: name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social orofficial life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper. [Colloq. Eng.& U.S.] G. W. Curtis.
jennet: A small Spanish horse; a genet.
jenneting: A variety of early apple. See Juneating. [Written alsogeniting.]
jenny: A familiar name of the European wren. Jenny ass (Zoöl.), afemale ass.
jentling: A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube.
jeofail: An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake oroversight. Blackstone.
jeopard: To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; tohazard. Sir T. North.A people that jeoparded their lives unto the death. Judg. v. 18.
jeoparder: One who puts in jeopardy. [R.]
jeopardize: To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard.That he should jeopardize his willful head Only for spite at me. H.Taylor.
jeopardous: Perilous; hazardous.His goodly, valiant, and jeopardous enterprise. Fuller.-- Jeop"ard*ous*ly, adv. Huloet.
jeopardy: Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger.There came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filledwith water, and were in jeopardy. Luke viii. 23.Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy. Shak.
jerboa: Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Ægyptius,which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas havevery long hind legs and a long tail. [Written also gerboa.]
jereed: A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially inmock fights. [Written also jerreed, jerid.] Byron.
jerfalcon: The gyrfalcon.
jerguer: See Jerquer.
jerid: Same as Jereed.
jerk: To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerkbeef. See Charqui.
jerker: A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus).
jerkin: A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat. Shak.
jerking: The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk.-- Jerk"ing*ly, adv.
jerkinhead: The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part ofits height, leaving a truncated gable.
jerky: Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupttransitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.
jermoonal: The Himalayan now partridge.
jeronymite: One belonging of the mediæval religious orders called Hermitsof St. Jerome. [Written also Hieronymite.]
jeropigia: See Geropigia.
jerquer: A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.[Eng.] [Written also jerguer.]
jerquing: The searching of a ship for unentered goods. [Eng.] [Writtenalso jerguer.]
jerry-builder: A professional builder who erects cheap dwellings of poormaterials and unsubstantial and slovenly construction.
jerry-built: Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses.[Colloq. Eng.]
jerusalem: The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with theglory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ.Jerusalem artichoke Etym
jervine: A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it inwhite hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.
jess: A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of ahawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand,was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon.Like a hawk, which feeling freed From bells and jesses which did lether flight. Spenser.
jessamine: Same as Jasmine.
jessant: Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal.
jesse: Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, indecorative art; as:(a) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass.(b) A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name ofsome one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse.Jesse window (Arch.), a window of which the glazing and traceryrepresent the tree of Jesse.
jessed: Having jesses on, as a hawk.
jestful: Given to jesting; full of jokes.
jesting: Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.He will find that these are no jesting matters. Macaulay.
jestingly: In a jesting manner.
jesu: Jesus. [Poetical]
jesuit: One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, andapproved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus.
jesuited: Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits. Milton.
jesuitess: One of an order of nuns established on the principles of theJesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.
jesuitically: In a jesuitical manner.
jesuitocracy: Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in acountry. [R.] C. Kingsley.
jesuitry: Jesuitism; subtle argument. [R.] Carlyle.
jesus: The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by theangel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinctionfrom Christ, his official appellation. Luke i. 31.Thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall save his people fromtheir sins. Matt. i. 21.
jet: Same as 2d Get. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jet-black: Black as jet; deep black.
jeterus: A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green;yellows.
jetteau: See Jet d'eau. [R.] Addison.
jettee: See Jetty, n. Burke.
jetter: One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop. [Obs.]Palsgrave.
jettiness: The state of being jetty; blackness. Pennant.
jettison: The throwing overboard of goods from necessity, in order tolighten a vessel in danger of wreck.
jetton: A metal counter used in playing cards.
jetty: Made of jet, or like jet in color.The people . . . are of a jetty. Sir T. Browne.
jeunesse doree: Lit., gilded youth; young people of wealth and fashion, esp. ifgiven to prodigal living; -- in the French Revolution, applied toyoung men of the upper classes who aided in suppressing the Jacobinsafter the Reign of Terror.
jew: Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah;after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the newstate; a Hebrew; an Israelite. Jew's frankincense, gum styrax, orbenzoin.-- Jew's mallow (Bot.), an annual herb (Corchorus olitorius)cultivated in Syria and Egypt as a pot herb, and in India for itsfiber.-- Jew's pitch, asphaltum; bitumen.-- The Wandering Jew, an imaginary personage, who, for his crueltyto the Savior during his passion, is doomed to wander on the earthtill Christ's second coming.
jewbush: A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P.tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerfulemetic and drastic qualities.
jewel: To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, asword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels.The long gray tufts . . . are jeweled thick with dew. M. Arnold.
jeweler: One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, andsimilar ornaments. [Written also jeweller.] Jeweler's gold. See underGold.
jewellery: See Jewelry. Burke.
jewelweed: See Impatiens.
jewess: A Hebrew woman.
jewise: Same as Juise. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jewish: Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of orresembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.-- Jew"ish*ly, adv.-- Jew"ish*ness, n.
jewish calendar: A lunisolar calendar in use among Hebraic peoples, reckoningfrom the year 3761 b. c., the date traditionally given for theCreation. It received its present fixed form from Hillel II. about360 a. d. The present names of the months, which are Babylonian-Assyrian in origin, replaced older ones, Abib, Bul, etc., at the timeof the Babylonian Exile. Nineteen years constitute a lunar cycle, ofwhich the 3d, 6th, 8th, 11th, 14th, 17th, and 19th years are leapyears. The year 5663 [1902-3 a. d.] was the first year of the 299thlunar cycle. The common year is said to be defective, regular, orperfect (or abundant) according as it has 353, 354, or 355 days. Theleap year has an intercalary month, and a total of 383 (defective),384 (regular), or 385 (perfect, or abundant) days. The calendar iscomplicated by various rules providing for the harmonious arrangementof festivals, etc., so that no simple perpetual calendar can beconstructed. The following table gives the months in order, with thenumber of days assigned to each. Only three months vary in length.They are
jewry: Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.Chaucer.Teaching throughout all Jewry. Luke xxiii. 5.
jezebel: A bold, vicious woman; a termagant. Spectator.
jharal: A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiestmountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane onits head and neck.
jib: A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from theforemast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Largevessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flyingjib; etc.
jibber: A horse that jibs. [Eng.]
jibe: To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side ofa vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. SeeGybe.
jiffy: A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. [Colloq.]J. & H. Smith.
jig: A light, brisk musical movement.Hot and hasty, like a Scotch jib. Shak.
jigger: A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), whichburrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe.
jigging: The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with ajigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water.Jigging machine. (a) (Mining) A machine for separating ore by theprocess of jigging. (b) (Metal Working) A machine with a rotarymilling cutter and a templet by which the action of the cutter isguided or limited; -- used for forming the profile of an irregularlyshaped piece; a profiling machine.
jiggle: To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up anddown.
jigjog: A jolting motion; a jogging pace.
jill: A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill. Beau. & Fl.
jill-flirt: A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt.
jilt: A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; aflirt. Otway.
jim crow: A negro; -- said to be so called from a popular negro song anddance, the refrain of which is "Wheel about and turn about and jumpJim Crow," produced in 1835 by T. D. Rice, a famous negro minstrel.[Slang, U. S.]
jimcrack: See Gimcrack.
jimmy: A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.[Written also jemmy.]
jimp: Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.
jimson weed: . See Jamestown weed. [Local, U.S.]
jingal: A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.[Written also gingal and jingall.] [India]
jingle: To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or ascoins shaken together; to tinkle.The bells she jingled, and the whistle blew. Pope.
jingler: One who, or that which, jingles.
jingling: The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sounditself; a chink. "The jingling of the guinea." Tennyson.
jinglingly: So as to jingle. Lowell.
jingoism: The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2. [Cant,Eng.]
jinnee: A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evilspirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the powerof assuming various forms. [Written also jin, djinnee, etc.]
jinny road: An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descendby gravity, drawing up empty ones. Knight.
jinrikisha: A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men.[Japan]
jinx: A person, object, influence, or supernatural being which issupposed to bring bad luck or to cause things to go wrong. [Slang]
jippo: A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.
jo: A sweetheart; a darling. [Scot.] Burns.
job: To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers ormanufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to jobgoods.
jobation: A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof. [Law] Grose.
jobbernowl: A blockhead. [Colloq. & Obs.] H. Taylor.
jocantry: The act or practice of jesting. [Obs.]
jockey: To play or act the jockey; to cheat.
jockeying: The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery.Beaconsfield.
jockeyism: The practice of jockeys.
jockeyship: The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personalityof a jockey.Go flatter Sawney for his jockeyship. Chatterton.Where can at last his jockeyship retire Cowper.
jocose: Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding injokes; merry; sportive; humorous.To quit their austerity and be jocose and pleasant with an adversary.Shaftesbury.All . . . jocose or comical airs should be excluded. I. Watts.
jocoserious: Mingling mirth and seriousness. M. Green.
jocosity: A jocose act or saying; jocoseness. Sir T. Browne.
jocularity: Jesting; merriment.
jocularly: In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely.
joculary: Jocular; jocose; sportive. Bacon.
joculator: A jester; a joker. [Obs.] Strutt.
joculatory: Droll; sportive. [Obs.] Cockeram.
jocund: Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on themisty mountain tops. Shak.Rural sports and jocund strains. Prior.-- Joc"und*ly, adv.-- Joc"und*ness, n.
jocundity: The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness.
joe: See Johannes.
joe miller: A jest book; a stale jest; a worn-out joke. [Colloq.]It is an old Joe Miller in whist circles, that there are only tworeasons that can justify you in not returning trumps to yourpartner's lead; i. e., first, sudden illness; secondly, having none.Pole.
joe-pye weed: A tall composite plant of the genus Eupatorium (E. purpureum),with purplish flowers, and whorled leaves.
jog: To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; tomove slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on,sometimes with over.Jog on, jog on, the footpath way. Shak.So hung his destiny, never to rot,While he might still jog on and keep his trot. Milton.The good old ways our sires jogged safely over. R. Browning.
jogger: One who jogs. Dryden.
jogging: The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.
joggle: To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart;sometimes, loosely, to dowel.The struts of a roof are joggled into the truss posts. Gwilt.
johannean: Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or hiswritings. M. Stuart.
johannes: A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, namedfrom the figure of King John which it bears;- often contracted intojoe; as, a joe, or a half joe.
johannisberger: A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle)Johannisberg, on the Rhine.
john: A proper name of a man. John-apple, a sort of apple ripe aboutSt. John's Day. Same as Apple-john.-- John Bull, an ideal personification of the typicalcharacteristics of an Englishman, or of the English people.-- John Bullism, English character. W. Irving.-- John Doe (Law), the name formerly given to the fictitiousplaintiff in an action of ejectment. Mozley & W.-- John Doree, John Dory. Etym
johnadreams: A dreamy, idle fellow. Shak.
johnny: A sculpin. [Local cant] Johny Crapaud (, a jocose designationof a Frenchman, or of the French people, collectively.
johnnycake: A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixedwith water or milk, etc., and baked. [U.S.] J. Barlow.
johnson grass: A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in theSouthern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks arelarge and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cubagrass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet.
johnsonese: The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed inimitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affectingclassical words. E. Everett.
johnsonian: Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous;inflated.
johnsonianism: A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristicof, Dr. Johnson. [Written also Johnsonism.]
join: To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; tounite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join;two rivers join.Whose house joined hard to the synagogue. Acts xviii. 7.Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with thepeople of these abominations Ezra ix. 14.Nature and fortune joined to make thee great. Shak.
joinant: Adjoining. [Obs.] Chaucer.
joinery: The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner.A piece of joinery . . . whimsically dovetailed. Burke.
joinhand: Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguishedfrom writing in single letters. Addison.
joint: A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverseto the stratification.
joint-fir: A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stemsconspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail. There areabout thirty species, of which two or three are found from Texas toCalifornia.
jointed: Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, ajointed doll; jointed structure. "The jointed herbage." J. Philips.-- Joint"ed*ly, adv.
jointing: The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thusproduced. Jointing machine, a planing machine for wood used infurniture and piano factories, etc.-- Jointing plane. See Jointer, 2.-- Jointing rule (Masonry), a long straight rule, used bybricklayers for securing straight joints and faces.
jointless: Without a joint; rigid; stiff.
jointly: In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; notseparately.Then jointly to the ground their knees they bow. Shak.
jointress: A woman who has a jointure. [Written also jointuress.]Blackstone.
jointure: An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy afterhusband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction ofdower.The jointure that your king must make, Which with her dowry shall becounterpoised. Shak.
jointureless: Having no jointure.
jointuress: See Jointress. Bouvier.
jointweed: A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonumarticulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.
jointworm: The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei),which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usuallyat or just above the first joint. In some parts of America it doesgreat damage to the crop.
joist: A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which theplanks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, arenailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist,bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. ofDouble-framed floor, under Double, a.
joke: To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter;as, to joke a comrade.
joker: See Rest bower, under 2d Bower.
jokingly: In a joking way; sportively.
jolif: Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jollification: A merrymaking; noisy festivity. [Colloq.]We have had a jollification or so together. Sir W. Scott.
jollily: In a jolly manner.
jolliment: Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser.
jolliness: Jollity; noisy mirth. Chaucer.
jollity: Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterousenjoyment. Chaucer.All now was turned to jollity and game. Milton.He with a proud jollity commanded him to leave that quarrel only forhim, who was only worthy to enter into it. Sir P. Sidney.
jolly-boat: A boat of medium size belonging to a ship.
jollyhead: Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser.
jolt: To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriagemoving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts.
jolter: One who, or that which, jolts.
joltingly: In a jolting manner.
jolty: That jolts; as, a jolty coach. [Colloq.]
jonah: The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one whoendangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence isunpropitious. Jonah crab (Zoöl.), a large crab (Cancer borealis) ofthe eastern coast of the United States, sometimes found betweentides, but usually in deep water.
jonesian: Of or pertaining to Jones. The Jonesian system, a system oftransliterating Oriental words by English letters, invented by SirWilliam Jones.
joram: See Jorum.
jorum: A large drinking vessel; also, its contents. [Colloq. Eng.]Forby.
joseph: An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman'sriding habit, buttoned down the front. Fairholt.
joso: A small gudgeon.
joss: A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol. "Critic in jarsand josses." Colman (1761). Joss house, a Chinese temple or house forthe Chinese mode of worship.-- Joss stick, a reed covered with a paste made of the dust ofodoriferous woods, or a cylinder made wholly of the paste; -- burnedby the Chinese before an idol.
joss paper: Gold and silver paper burned by the Chinese, in the form ofcoins or ingots, in worship and at funerals.
jossa: A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still." [Obs.]Chaucer.
jostle: To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; tohustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against. "Bullies jostledhim." Macaulay.Systems of movement, physical, intellectual, and moral, which areperpetually jostling each other. I. Taylor.
jostlement: Crowding; hustling.
jot: An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n.Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wisepass from the law, till all be fulfilled. Matt. v. 18.Neither will they bate One jot of ceremony. Shak.
jougs: An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used inScotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke. Sir W.Scott.
jouissance: Jollity; merriment. [Obs.] Spenser.
jouk: See Juke.
joul: See Jowl.
joule: A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G.S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to theenergy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere ina resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738foot pounds. Joule's equivalent. See under Equivalent, n.
joulemeter: An integrating wattmeter for measuring the energy in joulesexpended in an electric circuit or developed by a machine.
jounce: To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by drivingover obstructions.
journal: Daily; diurnal. [Obs.]Whiles from their journal labors they did rest. Spenser.
journalistic: Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, orcharacteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature orenterprise.
journalize: To enter or record in a journal or diary. Johnson.
journey: To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance.Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. Gen. xii. 9.
journey-bated: Worn out with journeying. [Obs.] Shak.
journeyer: One who journeys.
journeyman: Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, onewho has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished fromapprentice and from master workman.I have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men, and not madethem well. Shak.
journeywork: Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman athis trade.
joust: To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in thelists; to tilt. [Written also just.]For the whole army to joust and tourney. Holland.
jouster: One who jousts or tilts.
jove: The planet Jupiter. [R.] Pope.
jovialist: One who lives a jovial life. Bp. Hall.
joviality: The quality or state of being jovial. Sir T. Herbert.
jovially: In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly. B. Jonson.
jovialness: Noisy mirth; joviality. Hewyt.
jovialty: Joviality. [R.] Barrow.
jovian: Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or theplanet).
jovicentric: Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed fromJupiter. [R.] J. R. Hind.
jovinianist: An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourthcentury, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticismof his time.
jowl: The cheek; the jaw. [Written also jole, choule, chowle, andgeoule.] Cheek by jowl, with the cheeks close together; side by side;in close proximity. "I will go with three cheek by jole." Shak. "Sits cheek by jowl." Dryden.
jowler: A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.
jowter: A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster. [Obs.]Carew.
joy: To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult.I will joy in the God of my salvation. Hab. iii. 18.In whose sight all things joy. Milton.
joyance: Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness. Spenser.Some days of joyance are decreed to all. Byron.From what hid fountains doth thy joyance flow Trench.
joyancy: Joyance. [R.] Carlyle.
joyful: Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyfulheart. "Joyful tidings." Shak.My soul shall be joyful in my God. Is. lxi. 10.Sad for their loss, but joyful of our life. Pope.-- Joy"ful*ly, adv.-- Joy"ful*ness, n.
joyless: Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable.-- Joy"less*ly, adv.-- Joy"less*ness, n.With downcast eyes the joyless victor sat. Dryden.Youth and health and war are joyless to him. Addison.[He] pining for the lass, Is joyless of the grove, and spurns thegrowing grass. Dryden.
joyous: Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy;with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy.Is this your joyous city Is. xxiii. 7.They all as glad as birds of joyous prime. Spenser.And joyous of our conquest early won. Dryden.
joysome: Causing joyfulness. [R.]This all joysome grove. T. Browne.
jub: A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug. [Obs.] Chaucer.
juba: The mane of an animal.
jubate: Fringed with long, pendent hair.
jubilant: Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant;exulting. "The jubilant age." Coleridge.While the bright pomp ascended jubilant. Milton.
jubilantly: In a jubilant manner.
jubilar: Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee. [R.] Bp.Hall.
jubilate: To exult; to rejoice. [R.] De Quincey.
jubilation: A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation. "Jubilations andhallelujahs." South.
jubilee: Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion ofeach seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrewblood were liberated, and all lands which had been alienated duringthe whole period reverted to their former owners. [In this sensespelled also, in some English Bibles, jubile.] Lev. xxv. 8-17.
jucundity: Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
judahite: One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; aJew. Kitto.
judaically: After the Jewish manner. Milton.
judaist: One who believes and practices Judaism.
judaistic: Of or pertaining to Judaism.
judaization: The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion orritual. [R.]
judaize: To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of theJews; to inculcate or impose Judaism.They . . . prevailed on the Galatians to Judaize so far as to observethe rites of Moses in various instances. They were Judaizing doctors,who taught the observation of the Mosaic law. Bp. Bull.
judaizer: One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl.(Ch. Hist.), those Jews who accepted Christianity but still adheredto the law of Moses and worshiped in the temple at Jerusalem.
judaizers: See Raskolnik.
judas: The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence
judas-colored: Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair andbeard.There's treachery in that Judas-colored beard. Dryden.
juddock: See Jacksnipe.
judean: Of or pertaining to Judea.-- n.
judge: A public officer who is invested with authority to hear anddetermine litigated causes, and to administer justice between partiesin courts held for that purpose.The parts of a judge in hearing are four
judge-made: Created by judges or judicial decision; -- applied esp. to lawapplied or established by the judicial interpretation of statutes soas extend or restrict their scope, as to meet new cases, to providenew or better remedies, etc., and often used opprobriously of acts ofjudicial interpretation considered as doing this.
judger: One who judges. Sir K. Digby.
judgeship: The office of a judge.
judgment: The final award; the last sentence.
judicable: Capable of being judged; capable of being tried or decidedupon. Jer. Taylor.
judicative: Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty.Hammond.
judicatory: Pertaining to the administration of justice; dispensingjustice; judicial; as, judicatory tribunals. T. Wharton.Power to reject in an authoritative or judicatory way. Bp. Hall.
judicially: In a judicial capacity or judicial manner. "The Lords . . .sitting judicially." Macaulay.
judiciary: Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals;judicial; as, a judiciary proceeding. Bp. Burnet.
judicious: Of or relating to a court; judicial. [Obs.]His last offenses to us Shall have judicious hearing. Shak.
judiciously: In a judicious manner; with good judgment; wisely.
judiciousness: The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; s
jugal: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone.
jugata: The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side byside or joined.
jugated: Coupled together.
juge: A judge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jugement: Judgment. [Obs.] Chaucer.
juger: A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240feet in length by 120 in breadth.
jugger: An East Indian falcon. See Lugger.
juggernaut: One of the names under which Vishnu, in his incarnation asKrishna, is worshiped by the Hindoos. [Written also Juggernnath,Jaganath, Jaganatha, etc.]
juggle: To deceive by trick or artifice.Is't possible the spells of France should juggle Men into suchstrange mysteries Shak.
juggling: Cheating; tricky.-- Jug"gling*ly, adv.
juggs: See Jougs. [Scot.]
juglandin: An extractive matter contained in the juice of the green shucksof the walnut (Juglans regia). It is used medicinally as analterative, and also as a black hair dye.
juglandine: An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).
juglans: A genus of valuable trees, including the true walnut of Europe,and the America black walnut, and butternut.
juglone: A yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extractedfrom green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called alsonucin.
jugular: Having the ventral fins beneath the throat; -- said of certainfishes.
jugulate: To cut the throat of. [R.] Jacob Bigelow.
jugulum: The lower throat, or that part of the neck just above thebreast.
juice: The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance;the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluidpart which separates from meat in cooking.An animal whose juices are unsound. Arbuthnot.The juice of July flowers. B. Jonson.The juice of Egypt's grape. Shak.Letters which Edward Digby wrote in lemon juice. Macaulay.Cold water draws the juice of meat. Mrs. Whitney.
juiceless: Lacking juice; dry. Dr. H. More.
juiciness: The state or quality of being juicy; succulence plants.
juicy: A bounding with juice; succulent. Bacon.
juise: Judgment; justice; sentence. [Obs.]Up [on] pain of hanging and high juise. Chaucer.
jujube: The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterraneanand African species small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especiallythe Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The lastnamed is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient LibyanLotophagi, or lotus eaters. Jujube paste, the dried or inspissatedjelly of the jujube; also, a confection made of gum arabic sweetened.
juke: To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head. [Written also jookand jouk.]The money merchant was so proud of his trust that he went juking andtossing of his head. L' Estrange.
julaceous: Like an ament, or bearing aments; amentaceous.
julep: a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used asa vehicle. Milton.Honey in woods, juleps in brooks. H. Vaughan.
julian: Relating to, or derived from, Julius Cæsar. Julian calendar,the calendar as adjusted by Julius Cæsar, in which the year was madeto consist of 365 days, each fourth year having 366 days.-- Julian epoch, the epoch of the commencement of the Juliancalendar, or 46 b. c.-- Julian period, a chronological period of 7,980 years, combiningthe solar, lunar, and indiction cycles (28 x 19 x 15 = 7,980), beingreckoned from the year 4713 B. C., when the first years of theseseveral cycles would coincide, so that if any year of the period bedivided by 28, 19, or 15, the remainder will be the year of thecorresponding cycle. The Julian period was proposed by Scaliger, toremove or avoid ambiguities in chronological dates, and was so namedbecause composed of Julian years.-- Julian year, the year of 365 days, 6 hours, adopted in the Juliancalendar, and in use until superseded by the Gregorian year, asestablished in the reformed or Gregorian calendar.
julienne: A kind of soup containing thin slices or shreds of carrots,onions, etc.
juliform: Having the shape or appearance of a julus or catkin.
julus: A catkin or ament. See Ament.
july: The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
july-flower: See Gillyflower.
jumart: The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare. Locke.
jumble: To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together withoutorder; -- often followed by together or up.Why dost thou blend and jumble such inconsistencies together Burton.Every clime and age Jumbled together. Tennyson.
jumblement: Confused mixture. [Low]
jumbler: One who confuses things.
jumblingly: In a confused manner.
jumelle: Twin; paired; -- said of various objects made or formed inpairs, as a binocular opera glass, a pair of gimmal rings, etc.
jument: A beast; especially, a beast of burden. [Obs.]Fitter for juments than men to feed on. Burton.
jump: A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century.
jump spark: A spark produced by the jumping of electricity across apermanent gap.
jumper: The larva of the cheese fly. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.
jumping: of Jump, to leap. Jumping bean, a seed of a Mexican Euphorbia,containing the larva of a moth (Carpocapsa saltitans). The larva byits sudden movements causes the seed to roll to roll and jump about.-- Jumping deer (Zoöl.), a South African rodent (Pedetes Caffer),allied to the jerboa.-- Jumping jack, a toy figure of a man, jointed and made to jump ordance by means of strings.-- Jumping louse (Zoöl.), any of the numerous species of plant licebelonging to the family Psyllidæ, several of which are injurious tofruit trees.-- Jumping mouse (Zoöl.), North American mouse (Zapus Hudsonius),having a long tail and large hind legs. It is noted for its jumpingpowers. Called also kangaroo mouse.-- Jumping mullet (Zoöl.), gray mullet.-- Jumping shrew (Zoöl.), any African insectivore of the genusMacroscelides. They are allied to the shrews, but have large hindlegs adapted for jumping.-- Jumping spider (Zoöl.), spider of the genus Salticus and otherrelated genera; one of the Saltigradæ; -- so called because it leapsupon its prey.
jumping disease: A convulsive tic similar to or identical with miryachit,observed among the woodsmen of Maine.
jumpweld: See Buttweld, v. t.
jumpy: Jumping, or inducing to jump; characterized by jumps; hence,extremely nervous.
juncaceous: Of. pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants(Juncaceæ), of which the common rush (Juncus) is the type.
juncate: See Junket.[Obs.] Spenser.
juncite: A fossil rush.
junco: Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species ofNorth American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird.
juncous: Full of rushes
junction box: A box through which the main conductors of a system of electricdistribution pass, and where connection is made with branch circuits.
june: The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days.And what is so rare as a day in June Then, if ever, come perfectdays. Lowell.June beetle, June bug (Zoöl.), any one of several species of largebrown beetles of the genus Lachnosterna and related genera; -- socalled because they begin to fly, in the northern United States,about the first of June. The larvæ of the June beetles live underground, and feed upon the roots of grasses and other plants. Calledalso May bug or May beetle.-- June grass (Bot.), a New England name for Kentucky blue grass.See Blue glass, and Illustration in Appendix.
juneating: A kind of early apple. [Written also jenneting.]
jungermannia: A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerlycomprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes thereforecalled Jungermanniaceæ.
jungle: A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; analmost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, asin India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil.The jungles of India are of bamboos, canes, and other palms, verydifficult to penetrate. Balfour (Cyc. of India).Jungle bear (Zoöl.), the aswail or sloth bear.-- Jungle cat (Zoöl.), the chaus.-- Jungle cock (Zoöl.), the male of a jungle fowl.-- Jungle fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) Any wild species of the genus Gallus, ofwhich several species inhabit India and the adjacent islands; as, thefork-tailed jungle fowl (G. varius) of Java, G. Stanleyi of Ceylon,and G. Bankiva of India.
jungly: Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature ofa jungle.
juniority: The state or quality of being junior.
juniper: Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and orderConiferæ.
juniperin: A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries.
juniperite: One of the fossil Coniferæ, evidently allied to the juniper.
junk: A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk.[Colloq.] Lowell.
junker: A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of thearistocratic party in Prussia.
junkerism: The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia.
junket: To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimesapplied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the publiccost.Job's children junketed and feasted together often. South.
junketing: A feast or entertainment; a revel.All those snug junketings and public gormandizings for which theancient magistrates were equally famous with their modern successors.W. Irving.The apostle would have no reveling or junketing upon the altar.South.
junketries: Sweetmeats. [Obs.]
juno: The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and thegoddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the GreekHera.Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak.
junold: See Gimmal.
junta: A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., thegrand council of state in Spain.
junto: A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government orpolitics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; acabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians.The puzzling sons of party next appeared, In dark cabals and mightyjuntos met. Thomson.
jupartie: Jeopardy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jupati palm: A great Brazilian palm tree (Raphia tædigera), used by thenatives for many purposes.
jupe: Same as Jupon.
jupiter: The supreme deity, king of gods and men, and reputed to be theson of Saturn and Rhea; Jove. He corresponds to the Greek Zeus.
jura: 1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.
jura-trias: A term applied to many American Mesozoic strata, in which thecharacteristics of the Jurassic and Triassic periods appear to beblended.-- Ju`ra-tri*as"sic, a.
jural: Of or pertaining to jurisprudence.
juramentum: An oath.
jurassic: Of the age of the middle Mesozoic, including, as divided inEngland and Europe, the Lias, Oölite, and Wealden; -- named fromcertain rocks of the Jura mountains.-- n.
jurat: The memorandum or certificate at the end of an asffidavit, or abill or answer in chancery, showing when, before whom, and (inEnglish practice), where, it was sworn or affirmed. Wharton. Bouvier.
juratory: Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution.Ayliffe.
jurdiccion: Jurisdiction. [Obs.]
jurdon: Jordan. [Obs.] Chaucer.
jurel: A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranxchrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish;-- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack,skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel.Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes calledjurel.
juridically: In a juridical manner.
jurisconsult: A man learned in the civil law; an expert in juridical science;a professor of jurisprudence; a jurist.
jurisdiction: The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court tohear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice;judicial authority over a cause or class of causes; as, certain suitsor actions, or the cognizance of certain crimes, are within thejurisdiction of a particular court, that is, within the limits of itsauthority or commission.
jurisdictional: Of or pertaining to jurisdiction; as jurisdictional rights.Barrow.
jurisdictive: Having jurisdiction. Milton.
jurisprudence: The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws,customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for thedue administration of justice.The talents of Abelard were not confined to theology, jurisprudence,philosophy. J. Warton.Medical jurisprudence, that branch of juridical law which concernsquestions of medicine.
jurisprudent: Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence. G. West.
jurisprudential: Of or pertaining to jurisprudence. Stewart.
jurist: One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law,especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law.It has ever been the method of public jurists to Burke.
juror: A member of a jury; a juryman.I shall both find your lordship judge and juror. Shak.
jury: For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance. Jurymast, a temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away,or broken.-- Jury rudder, a rudder constructed for temporary use.
jury-rigged: Rigged for temporary service. See Jury, a.
juryman: One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.
jussi: A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from anunidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made.
just: To joust. Fairfax.
justice: To administer justice to. [Obs.] Bacon.
justiceable: Liable to trial in a court of justice. [Obs.] Hayward.
justicehood: Justiceship. B. Jonson.
justicement: Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice.[Obs.] Johnson.
justicer: One who administers justice; a judge. [Obs.] "Some uprightjusticer." Shak.
justiceship: The office or dignity of a justice. Holland.
justiciable: Proper to be examined in a court of justice. Bailey.
justiciar: Same as Justiciary.
justiciary: An old name for the judges of the higher English courts.
justifiable: Capable of being justified, or shown to be just.Just are the ways of God, An justifiable to men. Milton.
justification: The showing in court of a sufficient lawful reason why a partycharged or accused did that for which he is called to answer.
justificative: Having power to justify; justificatory.
justificator: One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier. Johnson.
justificatory: Vindicatory; defensory; justificative.
justifier: One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, orabsolves.Justifiers of themselves and hypocrites. Strype.That he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth inJesus. Rom. iii. 26.
justify: To treat as if righteous and just; to pardon; to exculpate; toabsolve.By him all that believe are justified from all things, from which yecould not be justified by the law of Moses. Acts xiii. 39.
justinian: Of or pertaining to the Institutes or laws of the RomanJustinian.
justle: To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; tojostle. Shak.The chariots shall rage in the streets; they shall justle one againstanother in the broad ways. Nahum ii. 4.
justly: In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety;by right; honestly; fairly; accurately. "In equal balance justlyweighed." Shak.Nothing can justly be despised that can not justly be blamed
justness: The quality of being just; conformity to truth, propriety,accuracy, exactness, and the like; justice; reasonableness; fairness;equity; as, justness of proportions; the justness of a description orrepresentation; the justness of a cause.In value the satisfaction I had in seeing it represented with all thejustness and gracefulness of action. Dryden.
jute: The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorusolitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber ismuch used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper,etc.
jutes: Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of whichsettled in Kent, England, in the 5th century.
jutlander: A native or inhabitant of Jutland in Denmark.
jutlandish: Of or pertaining to Jutland, or to the people of Jutland.
jutting: Projecting, as corbels, cornices, etc.-- Jut"ting*ly, adv.
jutty: A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty.Shak.
juvenal: A youth. [Obs.] Shak.
juvenescence: A growing young.
juvenescent: Growing or becoming young.
juvenile: A young person or youth; -- used sportively or familiarly. C.Bronté.
juvenileness: The state or quality of being juvenile; juvenility.
juvia: A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetiaexcelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts.
juwansa: The camel's thorn. See under Camel.
juwise: Same as Juise. Chaucer.
juxtapose: To place in juxtaposition. Huxley.
juxtaposit: To place in close connection or contiguity; to juxtapose.Derham.
juxtaposition: A placing or being placed in nearness or contiguity, or side byside; as, a juxtaposition of words.Parts that are united by a a mere juxtaposition. Glanvill.Juxtaposition is a very unsafe criterion of continuity. Hare.
jymold: See Gimmal.
k: (K is from the Latin, which used the letter but little exceptin the early period of the language. It came into the Latin from theGreek, which received it from a Phoenician source, the ultimateorigin probably being Egyptian,. Etymologically K is most nearlyrelated to c, g, h (which see).
kaama: The hartbeest.
kabala: See Cabala.
kabassou: See Cabassou.
kabob: See Cabob, n. & v. t.
kabook: A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.
kabyle: A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber.
kadder: The jackdaw.
kafal: The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron,which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.
kaffle: See Coffle.
kafilah: See Cafila.
kaftan: See Caftan.
kage: A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.
kagu: A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus),native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and thefeathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown,black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern.
kaguan: The colugo.
kahani: A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.
kahau: A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo.The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the underparts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the topof the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscismonkey. [Written also kaha.]
kail: A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.
kaimacam: Same as Caimacam.
kain: Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by atenant to his landlord. Wharton (Law Dict.).
kainit: Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.
kainite: A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride andmagnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in PrussianSaxony.
kainozoic: See Cenozoic.
kaique: See Caique.
kairine: A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived fromquinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.
kairoline: An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as afebrifuge, and resembles kairine.
kaiser: The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by KingWilliam of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in1871.
kaka: A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brownparrot (Nestor meridionalis).
kakapo: A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native ofNew Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active atnight. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. Ithas large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owlparrot, night parrot, and night kaka.
kakaralli: A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water,because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.
kakistocracy: Government by the worst men.
kakoxene: See Cacoxene.
kalan: The sea otter.
kalasie: A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). Ithas a tuft of long hair on the head.
kale: A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head,being nearly the original or wild form of the species. [Written alsokail, and cale.]
kaleege: One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants,belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.
kaleidoscope: An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which containsloose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces soarranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endlessvariety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been muchemployed in arts of design.Shifting like the fragments of colored glass in the kaleidoscope. G.W. Cable.
kalendar: See Calendar.
kalendarial: See Calendarial.
kalender: See 3d Calender.
kalends: Same as Calends.
kali: The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- consideredto have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years.
kalif: See Caliph.
kaliform: Formed like kali, or glasswort.
kaligenous: Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.
kalium: Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.
kalki: The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar. Whitworth.
kalmia: A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreenfoliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel,ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc.
kalmuck: See Calmucks.
kalong: A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropusedulis).
kaloyer: See Caloyer.
kalpa: One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. Atthe end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated.
kalsomine: Same as Calcimine.
kam: Crooked; awry. [Obs.] "This is clean kam." Shak.
kama: The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, witha bow of sugar cane or flowers.
kamala: The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree(Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violentlyemetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm. [Written alsokameela.]
kame: A low ridge. [Scot.] See Eschar.
kami: A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythicaldynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty,and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented bythe mikado.
kamichi: A curious South American bird (Anhima, or Palamedea, cornuta),often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which itdefends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlikeornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although itsbeak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it isrelated in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres).Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also tothe chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer.
kamptulicon: A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta-percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.
kampylite: A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prismsof a fine orange yellow. [Written also campylite.]
kamtschadales: An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part ofKamtschatka.
kan: To know; to ken. [Obs.] See Ken.
kanchil: A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmæus, orT. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; adeerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning.
kand: Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.
kangaroo: Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the familyMacropodidæ. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacentislands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, whilethe fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo(Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve orfourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to thegenus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genusPetrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of thegenus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.
kansas: A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. Theyformerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, butwere removed to the Indian Territory.
kantian: Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher;conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines ofImmanuel Kant.
kantist: A disciple or follower of Kant.
kanttry: Same as Cantred.
kaolinization: The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.
kaolinize: To convert into kaolin.
kapelle: A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel;now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral. Grove.
kapellmeister: See Capellmeister.
kapia: The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.
kapnomar: ) See Capnomor.
kapok: A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn.Eriodendron anfractuosum), a bombaceous tree of the East and WestIndies.
karagane: A species of gray fox found in Russia.
karaism: Doctrines of the Karaites.
karaite: A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of theScriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud nobinding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.
karakul: Astrakhan, esp. in fine grades. Cf. Caracul.
karatas: A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (NidulariumKaratas).
karma: One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the futureexistence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result ofcause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.
karmathian: One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century byKarmat.
karn: A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.
karob: The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used bygoldsmiths. Crabb.
kaross: A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of asquare. [South Africa]
karpholite: A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color.It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese.
karroo: One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often riseterracelike to considerable elevations. [Also karoo.] The GreatKarroo, or The Karroo, a vast plateau, in Cape Colony, stretchingthrough five degrees of longitude, at an elevation of about 3,000feet.
karstenite: Same as Anhydrite.
karvel: See Carvel, and Caravel.
karyokinesis: The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division ofthe cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus,attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed tokaryostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, andfinally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimatelybecome disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called alsomitosis. See Cell development, under Cell.
karyokinetic: Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes ofcell division.
karyomiton: The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of acell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or thenetwork in the body of the cell. W. Flemming.
karyoplasma: The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell:nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of thecell.
karyostenosis: Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple divisionof the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed bydivision of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nucleardivision.
karyostenotic: Pertaining to, or connected with, karyostenosis; as, thekaryostenotic mode of nuclear division.
kasack: Same as Cossack.
kat: An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used astea by the Arabs.
katabolic: Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, whichgive rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity andincreasing stability.
katabolism: Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; --opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation.
katastate: (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; --opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.
kate: The brambling finch.
kathetal: Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sidesof a triangle, which include a right angle.
kathetometer: Same as Cathetometer.
kattimundoo: A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice ofthe East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement.
katydid: A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllusconcavus) of the family Locustidæ, common in the United States. Themales have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings.During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make apeculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did,whence the name.
kauri: A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara,australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind ofdammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.]
kava: A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, fromthe root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by thePolynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.[Written also kawa, kava, and ava.]
kavass: An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.[Turkey]
kaw: See Caw.
kawaka: a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana),having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.
kawn: A inn. [Turkey] See Khan.
kayak: A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, andusually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships anduses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and otherArctic tribes.
kayaker: One who uses a kayak.
kayko: The dog salmon.
kayles: A game; ninepins. [Prov Eng.] Carew.
kaynard: A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kazoo: A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside ofwhich is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humminginto the tube.
kea: A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious forhaving acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountainparrot.
keck: To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. [R.] Swift.
keckle: See Keck, v. i. & n.
keckling: Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.
kecklish: Inclined to vomit; squeamish. [R.] Holland.
kecksy: The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cowparsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.]Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs.Shak.
kecky: Resembling a kecksy. Grew.
keddah: An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephanttrap. [India]
kedge: To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, droppingit overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.
kedger: A small anchor; a kedge.
kedlock: See Charlock.
kee: See Kie, Ky, and Kine. [Prov. Eng.] Gay.
keech: A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher. [Obs.] Shak.
keel: To cool; to akin or stir [Obs.]While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shak.
keelage: The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering aport; also, the duty or toll. Bouvier. Wharton.
keeled: Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as,a keeled leaf.
keelfat: A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. [Written also keelvat.]Johnson.
keelhaul: To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to theyardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment inthe Dutch and English navies. Totten.
keeling: A cod.
keelivine: A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
keelman: See Keeler,
keelrake: Same as Keelhaul.
keels: Ninepins. See Kayles.
keelson: A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floortimbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; iniron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of atimber ship. Cross keelson, a similar structure lying athwart themain keelson, to support the engines and boilers.
keelvat: See Keelfat.
keen: To sharpen; to make cold. [R.]Cold winter keens the brightening flood. Thomson.
keener: A professional mourner who wails at a funeral. [Ireland]
keenly: In a keen manner.
keenness: The quality or state of being keen.
keep: A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. Totake keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
keepership: The office or position of a keeper. Carew.
keeping: Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a workof art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping.Keeping room, a family sitting room. [New Eng. & Prov. Eng.]
keepsake: Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver;a token of friendship.
keesh: See Kish.
keeve: A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub. Ure.
keever: See Keeve, n.
keffe-kil: See Kiefekil.
kefir: An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk,used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. --Ke*fir"ic (#), a.
kefir grains: Small hard yellowish aggregations found in the Caucasus region,and containing various yeasts and bacteria. They are used as aferment in preparing kefir.
keg: A small cask or barrel.
keilhauite: A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite inform. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, andyttria.
keir: See Kier.
keitloa: A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). Ithas the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or evenlonger.
keld: Having a kell or covering; webbed. [Obs.] Drayton.
kele: To cool. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kell: A kiln. [Obs.]
keloid: Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregularexcrescences upon the skin.-- n.
kelotomy: See Celotomy.
kelp: Any large blackish seaweed.
kelpfish: A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), livingamong kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genusPlatyglossus.
kelpware: Same as Kelp, 2.
kelson: See Keelson. Sir W. Raleigh.
kelt: See Kilt, n. Jamieson.
kelter: Regular order or proper condition. [Written also kilter.][Colloq.]If the organs of prayer be out of kelter or out of tune, how can wepray Barrow.
keltic: Same as Celtic, a. & n.
kemb: To comb. [Obs.]His longe hair was kembed behind his back. Chaucer.
kemelin: A tub; a brewer's vessel. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kempe: Rough; shaggy. [Obs.] "Kempe hairs." Chaucer.
kemps: The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (PlantagoLanceolata). Dr. Prior.
kempt: p. p. of Kemb. B. Jonson.
ken: A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves. [Slang, Eng.]
kennel: The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; agutter; also, a puddle. Bp. Hall.
kennel coal: . See Cannel coal.
keno: A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played withballs or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. [U. S.]
kenogenesis: Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make theirappearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo tothe peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished frompalingenesis. [Written also cænogenesis.]
kenogenetic: Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.-- Ken`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
kenspeckle: Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.[Scot.]
kent bugle: A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means ofwhich the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; --called also keyed bugle, and key bugle. Moore.
kentle: A hundred weight; a quintal.
kentledge: Pigs of iron used for ballast. [Written also kintlidge.]
kentucky: One of the United States. Kentucky blue grass (Bot.), avaluable pasture and meadow grass (Poa pratensis), found in bothEurope and America. See under Blue grass.-- Kentucky coffee tree (Bot.), a tall North American tree(Gymnocladus Canadensis) with bipinnate leaves. It produces largewoody pods containing a few seeds which have been used as asubstitute for coffee. The timber is a very valuable.
kephalin: One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposedby Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.
kepi: A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat topsloping toward the front, and a visor. As originally worn by theFrench in Algeria about 1830 it was tall and stiff with a straightvisor. It is now lower, has a curved visor, and is frequently soft.
kept: of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a manas his paramour.
kepviselohaz: See Legislature.
keramic: Same as Ceramic.
keramics: Same as Ceramics.
keramographic: Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, asa slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe. Scudamore.
kerana: A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. Moore (Encyc.of Music).
kerargyrite: See Cerargyrite.
kerasin: A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to bepresent in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.
kerasine: Resembling horn; horny; corneous.
keratin: A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containingsulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemicalbasis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and thelike. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is notdissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition withsulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Calledalso epidermose.
keratitis: Inflammation of the cornea.
keratode: See Keratose.
keratogenous: Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the hornyhoof of the horse.
keratoidea: Same as Keratosa.
keratome: An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations forcataract.
keratonyxis: The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needlethrough the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.
keratophyte: A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.
keratosa: An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlikefibers. It includes the commercial sponges.
keratose: A tough, horny animal substance entering into the compositionof the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called alsokeratode.
keraunograph: A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human bodyor elsewhere.-- Ker`au-nog"ra-phy, n.
kerb: See Curb.
kerbstone: See Curbstone.
kercher: A kerchief. [Obs.]He became . . . white as a kercher. Sir T. North.
kerchered: Covered, or bound round, with a kercher. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
kerchief: Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief. Milton.
kerf: A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting orsawing.
kerite: A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal orvegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closelyresembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material intelegraphy. Knight.
kerl: See Carl.
kermes: The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccusilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several speciesof oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of apea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used indyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, andwere used in medicine. [Written also chermes.]
kermesse: See Kirmess.
kern: An idler; a vagabond. Wharton.
kern baby: A doll or image decorated with corn (grain) flowers, etc.,carried in the festivals of a kern, or harvest-home. Called alsoharvest queen.
kerned: Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; --said of type. "In Roman, f and j are the only kerned letters."MacKellar.
kernel: To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.
kernelly: Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.Holland.
kernish: Clownish; booorish. [Obs.] "A petty kernish prince." Milton.
kerolite: Same as Cerolite.
kerosene: An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained fromthe distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hencecalled also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities,chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. Itconsists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.
kersey: A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from woolof long staple.
kerseymere: See Cassimere.
kerseynette: See Cassinette.
kerseys: Varieties of kersey; also, trousers made of kersey.
kerve: To carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kerver: A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kesar: See Kaiser [Obs.] Spenser.
keslop: The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. Halliwell.
kess: To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer
kest: of Cast. [Obs.]
kestrel: A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied tothe sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spottedwith white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name isalso applied to other allied species.
ket: Carrion; any filth. [Prob. Eng.] Halliwell.
keta: A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which inthe autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco andKamchatka.
ketch: An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and amizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tonsburden. Bomb ketch. See under Bomb.
ketchup: A sauce. See Catchup.
ketine: One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction ofcertain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they areunstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.
ketmie: The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated forthe acid of their mucilage. [Written also ketmia.]
ketol: One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances,represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. Methyl ketol, aweak organic base, obtained as a white crystalline substance havingthe odor of fæces.
ketone: One of a large class of organic substances resembling thealdehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organicacids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbonradicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquidshaving a pungent ethereal odor.
ketonic: Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.
kettle: A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover,used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. Kettle pins,ninepins; skittles. [Obs.] Shelton.-- Kettle stitch (Bookbinding), the stitch made in sewing at thehead and tail of a book. Knight.
kettledrum: A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemisphericalkettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.
kettledrummer: One who plays on a kettledrum.
keuper: The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart ofGeology.
kevel: A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.
kever: i. To cover. [Obs.] Chaucer.
keverchief: A kerchief. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kex: A weed; a kecksy. Bp. Gauden.Though the rough kex break The starred mosaic. Tennyson.
key: An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as thefruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.
key fruit: A samara.
key tone: See Keynote.
key-cold: Cold as a metallic key; lifeless. [Formerly, a proverbialexpression.] Shak. Milton.
keyage: Wharfage; quayage.
keyboard: The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ,typewriter, etc.
keyed: Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to akey, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle.
keynote: The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece orpassage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which allthe modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.
keyseat: To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.
keystone: The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles ismade different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or isdecorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch. Keystone State, theState of Pennsylvania; -- so called from its having been the centralState of the Union at the formation of the Constitution.
keystone state: Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been thecentral one of the 13 original United States.
keyway: See Key way, under Key.
khaki: Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth,originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniformsin the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summeruniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniformof wool, olive drab.
khaliff: See Caliph.
khamsin: Same as Kamsin.
khan: A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among theTartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerlygoverned by them.
khanate: Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan.
khaya: A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to themahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark isused as a febrifuge.
khedive: A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultanof Turkey to the ruler of Egypt.
khenna: See Henna.
kholah: The Indian jackal.
kholsun: The dhole.
khond: A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section ofwhom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to theearth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture.
khutbah: An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpitin Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed andhis descendants, and the ruling princes.
kiabooca wood: . See Kyaboca wood.
kiang: The dziggetai.
kibble: To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.]Halliwell.
kibblings: Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks ofNewfoundland.
kibe: A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulceratedchilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak.
kibed: Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibedheels. Beau. & Fl.
kiblah: See Keblah.
kiby: Affected with kibes. Skelton.
kichil: ,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer.
kick: To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horsekicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay.To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of thelighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting inweight. Milton.-- To kick the bucket, to lose one's life; to die. [Colloq. & Low]
kickable: Capable or deserving of being kicked. "A kickable boy." G.Eliot.
kickapoos: A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region ofNorthern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.
kicker: One who, or that which, kicks.
kickshaw: See Kickshaws, the correct singular.
kickshoe: A kickshaws. Milton.
kicksy-wicksy: Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames. Nares.
kickup: The water thrush or accentor. [Local, West Indies]
kid: A young goat.The . . . leopard shall lie down with the kid. Is. xi. 6.
kidde: of Kythe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kidderminster: A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town whereformerly most of it was manufactured.
kiddier: A huckster; a cadger. [Obs.] Halliwell.
kiddle: A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.[Improperly spelled kittle.]
kiddow: The guillemot. [Written also kiddaw.] [Prov. Eng.]
kiddy: To deceive; to outwit; to hoax. [Slang] Dickens.
kiddyish: Frolicsome; sportive. [Slang]
kidling: A young kid.
kidnap: To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will,with intent to carry to another place. Abbott.You may reason or expostulate with the parents, but never attempt tokidnap their children, and to make proselytes of them. Whately.
kidney: A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste productsfrom the animal body; a urinary gland.
kie: Kine; cows. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
kiefekil: A species of clay; meerschaum. [Also written keffekil.]
kier: A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the actionof hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
kieselguhr: Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used asan absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.
kieserite: Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines ofStassfurt, Prussian Saxony.
kieve: See Keeve, n.
kike: To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kilderkin: A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteenEnglish beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United Statesmeasure. [Written also kinderkin.]
kilerg: A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs.
kilkenny cats: Two cats fabled, in an Irish story, to have fought till nothingwas left but their tails. It is probably a parable of a local contestbetween Kilkenny and Irishtown, which impoverished both towns.
kill: A kiln. [Obs.] Fuller.
kill-joy: One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person. W. Black.
killer: A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which severalspecies are known.
killifish: Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of thegenus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh andbrackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped orbarred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.
killigrew: The Cornish chough. See under Chough. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
killikinick: See Kinnikinic.
killing: Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in acolloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.-- Kill"ing*ly, adv.Those eyes are made so killing. Pope.Nothing could be more killingly spoken. Milton.
killock: A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stoneinclosed by pieces of wood fastened together. [Written also killick.]
killow: An earth of a blackish or deep blue color. Woodward.
kiln-dry: To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain. Mortimer.
kilnhole: The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln. Shak.
kilo: An abbreviation of Kilogram.
kilo-: A combining form used to signify thousand in forming the namesof units of measurement; as, kilogram, kilometer, kilowatt, etc.
kilostere: A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to35,315 cubic feet.
kilovolt: A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts.
kilowatt: One thousand watts.
kilowatt hour: A unit of work or energy equal to that done by one kilowattacting for one hour; --approx. = 1.34 horse-power hour.
kilt: p. p. from Kill. [Obs.] Spenser.
kilter: See Kelter.
kilting: A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plaitbeing folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.
kimbo: Crooked; arched; bent. [Written also kimbow.] Dryden.
kimmerian: See Cimmerian.
kimnel: A tub. See Kemelin. [Obs.]She knew not what a kimnel was Beau. & Fl.
kimry: See Cymry.
kin: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
kinaesodic: Kinesodic.
kinaesthesis: The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.Bastian.
kinate: See Quinate. [Obsolescent]
kincob: India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.-- a.
kind: To beget. [Obs.] Spenser.
kind-hearted: Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by ahumane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.To thy self at least kind-hearted prove. Shak.
kind-heartedness: The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.
kindergarten: A school for young children, conducted on the theory thateducation should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normalaptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, andconstruction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a Germaneducator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening ona garden.
kindergartner: One who teaches in a kindergarten.
kindle: To bring forth young. [Obs.] Shak.The poor beast had but lately kindled. Holland.
kindler: One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets onfire."Kindlers of riot." Gay.
kindless: Destitute of kindness; unnatural.[Obs.] "Kindless villain."Shak.
kindling: Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire.
kindred: Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as,kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions.True to the kindred points of heaven and home. Wordsworth.
kine: Cows. "A herd of fifty or sixty kine." Milton.
kinematics: The science which treats of motions considered in themselves,or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.
kinepox: See Cowpox. Kin"e*scope (, n.
kinesiatrics: A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; -- also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movementcure.
kinesipathy: See Kinesiatrics.
kinesitherapy: See Kinesiatrics.
kinesodic: Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. tothe spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntaryand reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motorimpulses applied to it directly.
kinetic: Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.Kinetic energy. See Energy, n. 4.
kinetics: See Dynamics.
kinetogenesis: An instrument for producing curves by the combination ofcircular movements; -- called also kinescope.
kinetophone: A machine combining a kinetoscope and a phonograph synchronizedso as to reproduce a scene and its accompanying sounds.
kinetoscope: A machine, for the production of animated pictures, in which afilm carrying successive instantaneous views of a moving scenetravels uniformly through the field of a magnifying glass. Theobserver sees each picture, momentarily, through a slit in arevolving disk, and these glimpses, blended by persistence of vision,give the impression of continuous motion.
king: A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones ormetal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood,and struck with a hammer.
king charles spaniel: A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high,dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavyhair. The color is usually black and tan.
king-post: A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It isstrictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in themiddle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they oftenbear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.
kingbolt: A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of avehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the otherparts.
kingcraft: The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royalpolicy. Prescott.
kingcup: The common buttercup.
kingdomed: Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom. [R.]"Twixt his mental and his active parts, Kingdom'd Achilles incommotion rages And batters down himself. Shak.
kingfisher: Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the familyAlcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture bydiving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only uponreptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species areknown. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but areparticularly abundant in the East Indies.
kinghood: The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.Gower.
kingless: Having no king. F. Lieber.
kinglet: Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genusRegulus and family Sylviidæ.
kinglihood: King-liness. Tennyson.
kingliness: The state or quality of being kingly.
kingling: Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill.
kingly: Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristicof, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king;monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kinglymagnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "Thekingly couch." Shak.The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey.Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper.
kingship: The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty. Landor.
kingston metal: . An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for thebearings and packings of machinery. McElrath.
kingston valve: A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipewhich passes through the side of a vessel below the water line.
kingtruss: A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges,etc.
kinic: See Quinic.
kinit: A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for onesecond, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; --proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist.
kink: To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously uponitself, as a rope or thread.
kinkajou: A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) ofSouth America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has aprehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative ofa distinct family (Cercoleptidæ) allied to the raccoons. Called alsopotto, and honey bear.
kinkhaust: Whooping cough. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.]
kinkle: Same as 3d Kink.
kinnikinic: Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by theIndians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or asa substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel(Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi).[Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.]
kino: The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously intanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.
kinology: That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, orof moving bodies.
kinone: See Quinone.
kinoyl: See Quinoyl.
kinrede: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kinsfolk: Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closelyor closely related families.They sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. Luke ii. 44.
kinship: Family relationship.
kinsman: A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.
kinsmanship: Kinship. Thackeray.
kinswoman: A female relative. Shak.
kintlidge: See Kentledge.
kiosk: A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.
kioways: A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. Theyformerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the NorthPlatte.
kip: The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather madefrom it; kipskin. Kip leather. See Kipskin.
kipe: An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.]
kipper: A salmon after spawning.
kippernut: A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.
kipskin: Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle,intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.
kirk: A church or the church, in the various senses of the word;esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformedchurches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson.
kirked: Turned upward; bent. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
kirkyard: A churchyard. [Scot.]
kirmess: In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoorfestival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoorentertainment and fair combined.
kirschwasser: An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juiceof the small black cherry.
kirsome: Christian; christened. [Obs.]I am a true kirsome woman. Beau. & Fl.
kirtle: A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worndoth by men and women.Wearing her Norman car, and her kirtle of blue. Longfellow.
kirtled: Wearing a kirtle. Byron.
kirumbo: A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only livingtype of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loralplumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections;the female is spotted with brown and black.
kish: A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally iniron smelting.
kismet: Destiny; fate. [Written also kismat.] [Oriental]
kisser: One who kisses. Beau. & Fl.
kissing bug: Any one of several species of blood-sucking, venomous Hemipterathat sometimes bite the lip or other parts of the human body, causingpainful sores, as the cone-nose (Conorhinus sanguisuga). [U. S.]
kissing strings: Cap or bonnet strings made long to tie under the chin.
kissingcrust: The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touchedanother loaf in baking. Lamb.A massy fragment from the rich kissingcrust that hangs like a frettedcornice from the upper half of the loaf. W. Howitt.
kist: A chest; hence, a coffin. [Scot. & Prov. End.] Jamieson.Halliwell.
kistvaen: A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.
kit: To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kitcat: A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood,called a cat, shaped like two coned united at their bases; tipcat.Cotton. Kitcat roll (Agric.), a roller somewhat in the form of twocones set base to base. [Prov. Eng.]
kitchen: To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.[Obs.] Shak.
kitchen middens: Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark,consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, onethousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is appliedalso to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada toFlorida, made by the North American Indians.
kitchen-ry: The body of servants employed in the kitchen. [Obs.] Holland.
kitchener: A kitchen servant; a cook. Carlyle.
kitchenette: A room combining a very small kitchen and a pantry, with thekitchen conveniences compactly arranged, sometimes so that they foldup out of sight and allow the kitchen to be made a part of theadjoining room by opening folding doors.
kitchenmaid: A woman employed in the kitchen. Shak.
kite: Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which manyspecies are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, andusually a forked tail.
kith: Acquaintance; kindred.And my near kith for sore me shend. W. Browne.The sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow.Kith and kin, kindred more or less remote.
kithara: See Cithara.
kithe: See Kythe. Chaucer.
kitish: Like or relating to a kite.
kitling: A young kitten; a whelp. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson.
kitte: of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kittel: See Kittle, v. t.
kitten: A young cat.
kittenish: Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.Richardson.
kittiwake: A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts ofEurope and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, andhas but three toes.
kittle: To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.]
kittlish: Ticklish; kittle. Sir W. Scott.
kittysol: The Chinese paper parasol.
kiva: A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblovillage, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men'sdormitory. It is commonly lighted and entered from an opening in theroof.
kive: A mash vat. See Keeve. [Obs.]
kiver: To cover.-- n.
kjoekken moeddings: See Kitchen middens.
klamaths: A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerlyliving along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but nowrestricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clametsand Hamati.
kleeneboc: (Zoöl.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmæus), found in SouthAfrica. It is of very small size, being but one foot high atshoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild andtimid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope.
kleptomania: A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This doesnot constitute legal irresponsibility. Wharton.
kleptomaniac: A person affected with kleptomania.
klick: See Click.
klicket: A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage ofsallying parties. [Written also klinket.]
klinkstone: See Clinkstone.
klinometer: See Clinometer.
klipfish: Dried cod, exported from Norway. [Written also clipfish.]
klipspringer: A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragusoreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag toanother with great agility; -- called also kainsi. [Written alsoklippspringer.]
kloof: A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end. [South Africa]
klopemania: See Kleptomania.
knabble: To bite or nibble. [Obs.]Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne.
knack-kneed: See Knock-kneed.
knackish: Trickish; artful. [Obs.] -- Knack"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
knacky: Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]Halliwell.
knagged: Full of knots; knaggy.
knaggy: Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. Fuller.-- Knag"gi*ness, n.
knap: A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, risingground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop.The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland.
knapbottle: The bladder campion (Silene inflata).
knappish: Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton.
knapple: To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble.[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
knappy: Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby. [Obs.]Huloet.
knapsack: A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back asoldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.And each one fills his knapsack or his scrip With some rare thingthat on the field is found. Drayton.
knapweed: The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from theknoblike heads of flowers. Called also bullweed.
knar: See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
knarl: A knot in wood. See Gnarl.
knarled: Knotted. See Gnarled.
knarred: Knotty; gnarled.The knarred and crooked cedar knees. Longfellow.
knarry: Knotty; gnarled. Chaucer.
knavery: Roguish or mischievous tricks. Shak.
knaveship: A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid tothe under miller. [Scot.]
knavess: A knavish woman. Carlyle.
knavishness: The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.
knaw: See Gnaw. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
knawel: A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandysoil.
kneadable: That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.
kneader: One who kneads.
kneadingly: In the manner of one kneading.
knebelite: A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glisteningluster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese.
kneck: The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. [Eng.]
knee: A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in theshape of the human knee when bent.
knee jerk: A jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden strain upon thepatellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden contraction of thequadriceps muscle.
knee-crooking: Obsequious; fawning; cringing. "Knee-crooking knave." Shak.
knee-high: Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee-high.
kneebrush: A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species ofantelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.
kneecap: The kneepan.
kneed: Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like theknee when a little bent; as, kneed grass.
kneejoint: A toggle joint; -- so called because consisting of two piecesjointed to each other end to end, making an angle like the knee whenbent.
kneejointed: Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2.
kneel: To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimeswith down.And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not thissin to their charge. Acts vii. 60.As soon as you are dressed, kneel and say the Lord's Prayer. Jer.Taylor.
kneeler: A name given to certain catechumens and penitents who werepermitted to join only in parts of church worship.
kneelingly: In a kneeling position.
kneepan: A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front ofthe knee joint; the patella; the kneecap.
kneepiece: A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of aboat.
knell: The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of aperson; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, awarning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything.The dead man's knell Is there scarce asked for who. Shak.The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. Gray.
knelt: of Kneel.
knew: of Know.
knicker: A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble byboys in playing. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett.
knickerbocker: A linsey-woolsey fabric having a rough knotted surface on theright side; used for women's dresses.
knickerbockers: The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes.
knickknack: A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.
knickknackatory: A collection of knickknacks. Richardson.
knickknackery: Knickknacks.
knife: To prune with the knife.
knife switch: A switch consisting of one or more knifelike pieces hinged atone end and making contact near the other with flat gripping springs.
knifeboard: A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.
knight: To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by thesovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying:Rise, Sir ---.A soldier, by the honor-giving hand Of Cknighted in the field. Shak.
knight bachelor: A knight of the most ancient, but lowest, order of Englishknights, and not a member of any order of chivalry. See Bachelor, 4.
knight banneret: A knight who carried a banner, who possessed fiefs to a greateramount than the knight bachelor, and who was obliged to serve in warwith a greater number of attendants. The dignity was sometimesconferred by the sovereign in person on the field of battle.
knight baronet: See Baronet.
knight marshal: An officer in the household of the British sovereign, who hascognizance of transgressions within the royal household and verge,and of contracts made there, a member of the household being one ofthe parties. Wharton.
knight service: A tenure of lands held by knights on condition of performingmilitary service. See Chivalry, n., 4.
knight templar: See Commandery, n., 3, and also Templar, n., 1 and 3.
knight-er-ratic: Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry. [R.]Quart. Rev.
knight-errant: A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search ofadventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess,and generosity.
knight-errantry: The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice ofwandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romanticadventure or scheme.The rigid guardian [i. e., conscience] of a blameless heart Is weakwith rank knight-erratries o'errun. Young.
knightage: To body of knights, taken collectively.
knighthead: A bollard timber. See under Bollard.
knightless: Unbecoming a knight. [Obs.] "Knightless guile." Spenser.
knightliness: The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry.Spenser.
knightly: Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous;as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit.For knightly jousts and fierce encounters fit. Spenser.[Excuses] full knightly without scorn. Tennyson.
knit: Union knitting; texture. Shak.
knitback: The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative.Dr. Prier.
knits: Small particles of ore. Raymond.
knitster: A woman who knits. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
knitter: One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knittingmachine. Shak.
knittle: See Nettles.
knives: of Knife. See Knife.
knob: See Knop. Knob latch, a latch which can be operated by turninga knob, without using a key.
knobbed: Containing knobs; full of knobs; ending in a nob. See Illust ofAntenna.The horns of a roe deer of Greenland are pointed at the top, andknobbed or tuberous at the bottom. Grew.
knobber: See Knobbler.
knobbing: Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections.
knobbler: The hart in its second year; a young deer. [Written alsoknobber.] Halliwell.He has hallooed the hounds upon a velvet-headed knobbler. Sir W.Scott.
knobbling fire: . A bloomery fire. See Bloomery.
knobkerrie: A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon byKafir and other native tribes of South Africa.
knobstick: One who refuses to join, or withdraws from, a trades union.[Cant, Eng.]
knock-knee: A condition in which the knees are bent in so as to touch eachother in walking; inknee.
knock-kneed: Having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.[Written also knack-kneed.]
knock-off: That knocks off; of or pertaining to knocking off.
knock-out: Act of knocking out, or state of being knocked out.
knock-out drops: Drops of some drug put in one's drink to stupefy him forpurpose of robbery, etc. [Slang, U. S.]
knockdown: A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal.
knocker: One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, orkind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking foradmittance.Shut, shut the door, good John ! fatigued, knocker; say I'm sick, I'mdead. Pope.
knocking: A beating; a rap; a series of raps.The . . . repeated knockings of the head upon the ground by theChinese worshiper. H. Spencer.
knockings: Large lumps picked out of the sieve, in dressing ore.
knockstone: A block upon which ore is broken up.
knoll: A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; thetop or crown of a hill.On knoll or hillock rears his crest, Lonely and huge, the giant oak.Sir W. Scott.
knoller: One who tolls a bell. [Obs.] Sherwood.
knop: Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamentaltermination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- calledalso knob, and knosp. Knop sedge (Bot.), the bur reed (Sparganium); -- so called from its globular clusters of seed vessels. Prior.
knopped: Having knops or knobs; fastened as with buttons. [Obs.] Rom. ofR.
knoppern: A kind of gall produced by a gallfly on the cup of an acorn, --used in tanning and dyeing.
knopweed: Same as Knapweed.
knor: See Knur. [Obs.]
knosp: Same as Knop,2. Milman.
knot: See Node.
knotberry: The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from itsknotted stems.
knotless: Free from knots; without knots. "Silver firs with knotlesstrunks." Congreve.
knotted: Characterized by small, detached points, chiefly composed ofmica, less decomposable than the mass of the rock, and forming knotsin relief on the weathered surface; as, knotted rocks. Percival.
knotweed: See Knot.
knotwort: A small, herbaceous, trailing plant, of the genus Illecebrum(I. verticillatum.)
knout: A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used inRussia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted withwire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh.
know: Knee. [Obs.] Chaucer.
know-all: One who knows everything; hence, one who makes pretension togreat knowledge; a wiseacre; -- usually ironical. [Colloq. or R.]
know-nothing: A member of a secret political organization in the UnitedStates, the chief objects of which were the proscription offoreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and theexclusive choice of native Americans for office.
know-nothingism: The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings.
knowable: That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, orascertained.Thus mind and matter, as known or knowable, are only two differentseries of phenomena or qualities. Sir W. Hamilton.
knowableness: The state or quality of being knowable. Locke.
knower: One who knows. Shak.
knowing: Knowledge; hence, experience. " In my knowing." Shak.This sore night Hath trifled former knowings. Shak.
knowingness: The state or quality of being knowing or intelligent;shrewdness; skillfulness.
knowleche: See Knowl, edge.We consider and knowleche that we have offended. Chaucer.
knowleching: Knowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
knowledge: To acknowledge. [Obs.] "Sinners which knowledge their sins."Tyndale.
known: of Know.
knubs: Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon.
knuckle: The joining pars of a hinge through which the pin or rivetpasses; a knuckle joint.
knuckled: Jointed. [Obs.] Bacon.
knuff: A lout; a clown. [Obs.]The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and cloutedshoon. Hayward.
knur: A knurl. Woodward.
knurl: A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; anodule; a boss or projection.
knurly: Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring orresisting much.
knurry: Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton.
koaita: Same as Coaita.
koala: A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found inAustralia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck.Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth.
kobalt: See Cobalt.
kobellite: A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, andlead.
kobold: A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding tothe Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow.
kodak: A kind of portable camera.
koel: Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys,found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit theireggs in the nests of other birds.
koff: A two-masted Dutch vessel.
koftgari: Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- avariety of damascening much used in the arts of India.
kohl: A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian andother Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids.
kohl-rabi: A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large,turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground.
kokama: The gemsbok.
koklass: Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia. The birds of this genusinhabit India and China, and are distinguished by having a longcentral and two lateral crests on the head. Called also pucras.
kokoon: The gnu.
kolarian: An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitantswhich survive in Hindostan.-- a.
kolinsky: Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putoriussibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for thetail, used for making artists' brushes. Trade names for the fur arered sable and Tatar sable.
komenic: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived frommeconic acid. [Written also comenic.]
komtok: An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belongingto the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and whenwaters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where itremains till the rainy season. It is used as food.
kon: To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.]Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer.
konite: See Conite.
konseal: A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that isoffensive, caustic, or the like.
konze: A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied tothe hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking ablack patch on the face.
koodoo: A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The maleshave graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The generalcolor is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands oneach side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males become dark bluishgray, due to the skin showing through the hair. The females arehornless. Called also nellut. [Written also kudu.]
kookoom: The oryx or gemsbok. [Written also kookaam.]
koolokamba: A west African anthropoid ape (Troglodytes koolokamba, or T.Aubryi), allied to the chimpanzee and gorilla, and, in some respects,intermediate between them.
koolslaa: See Coleslaw.
koord: See Kurd.
koordish: See Kurdish.
koorilian: Same as Kurilian.
kop: Hill; mountain. [South Africa]
kopeck: A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worthabout sixty cents. [Written also kopek, copec, and copeck.]
kopje: A hillock; a small kop. [South Africa]
koran: The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professedrevelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. [Written also Kuranor Quran.]
korin: The gazelle.
korrigum: A West African antelope (Damalis Senegalensis), allied to thesassaby. It is reddish gray, with a black face, and a black stripe onthe outside of the legs above the knees.
kosher: Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food,esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements ofJewish law. Opposed to tref. Hence, designating a shop, store, house,etc., where such food is sold or used.
kosmos: See Cosmos. Gladstone.
kotow: The prostration made by mandarins and others to theirsuperiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead onthe ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest beingexpressed by three knockings. [China]kowtow S. W. Williams.
koulan: A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plantsof Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager. [Written alsokulan.]
koumiss: An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally madeby the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk. It can be obtained fromany kind of milk, and is now largely made in Europe. [Written alsokoumyss, kumiss, kumish, and kumys.]Koumiss has from time immemorial served the Tartar instead of wine orspirits. J. H. Newman.
kousso: An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), theflowers of which are used as a vermifuge. [Written also cusso andkosso.]
kowtow: The same as Kotow.I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James.
kra: A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra. Itis reddish olive, spotted with black, and has a black tail.
krait: A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied tothe cobra. Its upper parts are bluish or brownish black, often withnarrow white streaks; the belly is whitish.
kraken: A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented asresembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus.To believe all that has been said of the sea serpent or kraken, wouldbe credulity; to reject the possibility of their existence, would bepresumption. Goldsmith.Like a kraken huge and black. Longfellow.
krakowiak: A lively Polish dance. See Cracovienne.
krameria: A genus of spreading shrubs with many stems, from one speciesof which (K. triandra), found in Peru, rhatany root, used as amedicine, is obtained.
krameric: Pertaining to, or derived from, Krameria (rhatany); as,krameric acid, usually called ratanhia-tannic acid.
krang: The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.[Written also crang and kreng.]
kranging hook: A hook for holding the blubber while cutting it away. [Writtenalso cranging hook.]
kreatic: See Creatic.
kreatin: See Creatin.
kreatinin: See Creatinin.
kreel: See Creel.
kremlin: The citadel of a town or city; especially, the citadel ofMoscow, a large inclosure which contains imperial palaces,cathedrals, churches, an arsenal, etc. [Russia]
krems: A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n.
kreng: See Krang.
kreosote: See Creosote.
kreutzer: A small copper coin formerly used in South Germany; also, asmall Austrian copper coin. [Written also kreuzer.]
kriegsspiel: A game of war, played for practice, on maps. Farrow.
kris: A Malay dagger. See Creese.
krishna: The most popular of the Hindoo divinities, usually held to bethe eighth incarnation of the god Vishnu.
kritarchy: The rule of the judges over Israel.Samson, Jephthah, Gideon, and other heroes of the kritarchy. Southey.
krokidolite: See Crocidolite.
krone: A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of abouttwenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9.
krooman: One of a negro tribe of Liberia and the adjacent coast, whosemembers are much employed on shipboard.
kruller: See Cruller.
krupp gun: . A breech-loading steel cannon manufactured at the works ofFriedrich Krupp, at Essen in Prussia. Guns of over eight-inch boreare made up of several concentric cylinders; those of a smaller sizeare forged solid. Knight.
kruppize: To treat by, or subject to, the Krupp process.
kryolite: See Cryolite.
krypton: An inert gaseous element of the argon group, occurring in airto the extent of about one volume in a million. It was discovered byRamsay and Travers in 1898. Liquefying point, -- 152º C.; symbol, Kr;atomic weight, 83.0.
ksar: See Czar.
kuda: The East Indian tapir. See Tapir.
kudos: Glory; fame; renown; praise. W. H. Russel.
kudu: See Koodoo.
kufic: See Cufic.
kukang: The slow lemur. See Lemur.
kuklux: The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by asecret political organization, active for several years after theclose of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of thepolitical power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan.
kulan: See Koulan.
kulturkampf: Lit., culture war; -- a name, originating with Virchow (1821 --1902), given to a struggle between the the Roman Catholic Church andthe German government, chiefly over the latter's efforts to controleducational and ecclesiastical appointments in the interest of thepolitical policy of centralization. The struggle began with thepassage by the Prussian Diet in May, 1873, of the so-called May laws,or Falk laws, aiming at the regulation of the clergy. Oppositioneventually compelled the government to change its policy, and from1880 to 1887 laws virtually nullifying the May laws were enacted.
kummel: A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spiritflavored with caraway seeds.
kumquat: A small tree of the genus Citrus (C. Japonica) growing in Chinaand Japan; also, its small acid, orange-colored fruit used forpreserves.
kupfernickel: Copper-nickel; niccolite. See Niccolite.
kurd: A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asiabelonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies. [Written alsoKoord.]
kurdish: Of or pertaining to the Kurds. [Written also Koordish.]
kurilian: Of or pertaining to the Kurile Islands, a chain of islands inthe Pacific ocean, extending from the southern extremity ofKamschatka to Yesso.-- n.
kuro-siwo: See Japan Current, above.
kursaal: A public hall or room, for the use of visitors at wateringplaces and health resorts in Germany.
kusimanse: A carnivorous animal (Crossarchus obscurus) of tropical Africa.It its allied to the civets. Called also kusimansel, and mangue.
kuskus: See Vetiver.
kussier: (Mus.) A Turkish instrument of music, with a hollow bodycovered with skin, over which five strings are stretched. [Writtenalso kussir.]
kutauss: The India civet (Viverra zibetha).
kutch: The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beateninto thin sheets.
ky: Kine. [Scot.] See Kee, Kie, and Kine.
kyack: A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle.[Western U. S.]
kyanite: See Cyanite.
kyanize: To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with asolution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.
kyanophyll: Same as Cyanophyll.
kyar: Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir.
kyaw: A daw. [Scot.]
kyd: p. p. of Kythe.
kydde: imp. of Kythe, to show. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kyke: To look steadfastly; to gaze. [Obs.] [Written also kike, keke.]This Nicholas sat ever gaping upright, As he had kyked on the newemoon. Chaucer.
kyley: A variety of the boomerang.
kyloes: The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. [Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
kymnel: See Kimnel. [Obs.] Chapman.
kymograph: An instrument for measuring, and recording graphically, thepressure of the blood in any of the blood vessels of a living animal;-- called also kymographion.
kymographic: Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing.
kymric: See Cymric, a. & n.
kymry: See Cymry.
kynrede: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.
kynurenic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from the urineof dogs. By decomposition the acid yields a nitrogenous base (calledkynurin) and carbonic acid. [Written also cynurenic.]
kyrie: See Kyrie eleison.
kyrie eleison: Greek words, meaning "Lord, have mercy upon us," used in theMass, the breviary offices, the litany of the saints, etc. Addis &Arnold.
kyrielle: A litany beginning with the words. "Kyrie eleison." Shipley.
kyriological: Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabeticalcharacters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters wascalled kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds.See Curiologic. [Written also curiologic and kuriologic.]
kythe: To come into view; to appear. [Scot.]It kythes bright . . . because all is dark around it. Sir W. Scott.
kytomiton: See Karyomiton.
kytoplasma: See Karyoplasma.
l: A short right-angled pipe fitting, used in connecting two pipesat right angles. [Written also ell.]
laager: A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons fortemporary defense. [South Africa]
laas: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lab: To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab. [Obs.] Chaucer.
labadist: A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17thcentury, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind ofmysticism, and the obligation of community of property amongChristians.
labarum: The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after hisconversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silkbanner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown.It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name ofChrist in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to variousmodifications of this standard.
labdanum: See Ladanum.
labefaction: The act of labefying or making weak; the state of beingweakened; decay; ruin.There is in it such a labefaction of all principles as may beinjurious to morality. Johnson.
labefy: To weaken or impair. [R.]
label: A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points,usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish aneldest or only son while his father is still living.
labeler: One who labels. [Written also labeller.]
labellum: The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceousflower, often of a very curious shape.
labent: Slipping; sliding; gliding. [R.]
labia: See Labium.
labial: Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.
labialism: The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of anarticulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which isdifferent in another language. J. Peile.
labialization: The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lipopening.
labialize: To modify by contraction of the lip opening.
labially: In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.
labiate: To labialize. Brewer.
labiated: Same as Labiate, a. (a).
labidometer: A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the sizeof the fetal head.
labile: Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. [Obs.] Cheyne.
lability: Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize. [Archaic] Coleridge.
labimeter: See Labidometer.
labiodental: Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth,as f and v.-- n.
labionasal: Formed by the lips and the nose.-- n.
labioplasty: A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing alost tissue of a lip.
labiose: Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certainpolypetalous corollas.
labipalp: A labial palp.
labipalpus: One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.
labium: The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.
lablab: an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plantsrelated to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean(Delichos Lablab).
labor: The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in thestraining of timbers and rigging.
labor day: In most of the States and Territories of the United States, aday, usually the first Monday of September, set aside as a legalholiday, in honor of, or in the interest of, workingmen as a class.Also, a similar holiday in Canada, Australia, etc.
labor-saving: Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor ofmen; as, laborsaving machinery.
laborant: A chemist. [Obs.] Boyle.
laboratory: The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experimentsin any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, orbiological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where somethingis prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is thelaboratory of the bile.
labored: Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; noteasy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.
laboredly: In a labored manner; with labor.
laborer: One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does workthat requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from thatof an artisan.
laborless: Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.
laborous: Laborious. [Obs.] Wyatt.-- La"bor*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
laborsome: Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea;having a tendency to labor.
labrador: A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north ofNewfoundland. Labrador duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (CamtolaimusLabradorius) allied to the eider ducks. It was formerly common on thecoast of New England, but is now supposed to be extinct, no specimenshaving been reported since 1878.-- Labrador feldspar. See Labradorite.-- Labrador tea (Bot.), a name of two low, evergreen shrubs of thegenus Ledum (L. palustre and L. latifolium), found in Northern Europeand America. They are used as tea in British America, and inScandinavia as a substitute for hops.
labradorite: A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors,and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimenscome from Labrador. See Feldspar.
labras: Lips. [Obs. & R.] Shak.
labret: A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in aperforation of the lip or cheek by many savages.
labroid: Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridæ, anextensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, whichare very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog andcunner are American examples.
labrose: Having thick lips.
labrus: A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. SeeWrasse.
laburnic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.
laburnine: A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.
laburnum: A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps.The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It hashandsome racemes of yellow blossoms.
labyrinth: The internal ear. See Note under Ear.
labyrinthal: Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate;labyrinthian.
labyrinthian: Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.
labyrinthibranch: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.-- n.
labyrinthici: An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, orclimbing perch, and other allied fishes.
labyrinthiform: Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.
labyrinthine: Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.
labyrinthodon: A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassicperiod, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is thetype of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus.
labyrinthodont: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.-- n.
labyrinthodonta: An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genusLabyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous,Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are dividedinto two or more orders. See Stegocephala.
lac: A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but tosome extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shapedinsect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudesfrom the margin of her body this resinous substance.
laccic: Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.
laccin: A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.
lace: To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.
lace-bark: A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so calledfrom the lacelike layers of its inner bark.
lace-winged: Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace-winged flies.
lacedaemonian: Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city ofLaconia in the Peloponnesus.-- n.
laceman: A man who deals in lace.
lacerable: That can be lacerated or torn.
lacerate: To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, tolacerate the flesh. Hence
lacerative: Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerativehumors. Harvey.
lacert: A muscle of the human body. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lacerta: A fathom. [Obs.] Domesday Book.
lacertian: Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.-- n.
lacertilia: An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.
lacertilian: Same as Lacertian.
lacertiloid: Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.
lacertine: Lacertian.
lacertus: A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.
lacewing: Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genusChrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings andbrilliant eyes. Their larvæ are useful in destroying aphids. Calledalso lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.
lachrymable: Lamentable. Martin Parker.
lachrymae christi: A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine.
lachrymal: See Lachrymatory.
lachrymals: Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs. [Colloq.]
lachrymary: Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal. Addison.
lachrymate: To weep. [R.] Blount.
lachrymation: The act of shedding tears; weeping.
lachrymatory: A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers ofthe ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tearsof the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called alsolachrymal or lacrymal.
lachrymiform: Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.
lachrymose: Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffusedwith tears; tearful.You should have seen his lachrymose visnomy. Lamb.-- Lach"ry*mose`ly, adv.
lacing: A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in themiddle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut. Waddell.
lacinia: The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillæ ofinsects.
laciniolate: Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ.
lacinula: A diminutive lacinia.
lack: Exclamation of regret or surprise. [Prov. Eng.] Cowper.
lackadaisical: Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.-- Lack`a*dai"si*cal*ly, adv.
lackadaisy: An expression of languor.
lackaday: Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret,dissatisfaction, or surprise.
lackbrain: One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person. Shak.
lacker: One who lacks or is in want.
lackey: An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.Like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. Shak.Lackey caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar, or larva, of anybombycid moth of the genus Clisiocampa; -- so called from its party-colored markings. The common European species (C. neustria) isstriped with blue, yellow, and red, with a white line on the back.The American species (C. Americana and C. sylvatica) are commonlycalled tent caterpillars. See Tent caterpillar,under Tent.-- Lackey moth (Zoöl.), the moth which produces the lackeycaterpillar.
lacmus: See Litmus.
laconian: Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece;Spartan.-- n.
laconic: Laconism. [Obs.] Addison.
laconical: See Laconic, a.
laconically: In a laconic manner.
laconicism: Same as Laconism. Pope.
laconize: To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief,pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.
lacquer: A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol,often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used forvarnishing metals, papier-maché, and wood. The name is also given tovarnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish ofthe Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made.
lacquerer: One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business oflacquering.
lacquering: The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat oflacquer put on.
lacrimoso: Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movementor style. Moore.
lacrosse: A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians,now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England andthe United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, calleda "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse andcarried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it orthrow it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of thefield.
lacrymal: See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.
lactage: The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which ismade from it.
lactam: One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous tothe lactones, as oxindol.
lactamic: Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lacticacid, and called also amido-propionic acid.
lactamide: An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a whitecrystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric withalanine.
lactant: Suckling; giving suck.
lactarene: A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.
lactary: Milky; full of white juice like milk. [Obs.] "Lactary or milkyplants." Sir T. Browne.
lactate: A salt of lactic acid.
lactation: A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by themammary gland.
lacteal: Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.
lacteally: Milkily; in the manner of milk.
lactean: Lacteal; conveying chyle.
lacteously: In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.
lactescence: The latex of certain plants. See Latex.
lactescent: Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed.See Latex.
lactic: Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as,lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.),a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water, with an intensely sourtaste and strong acid reaction. There are at least three isomericmodifications all having the formula C3H6O3. Sarcolactic orparalactic acid occurs chiefly in dead muscle tissue, while ordinarylactic acid results from fermentation. The two acids are alike inhaving the same constitution (expressed by the name ethylidene lacticacid), but the latter is optically inactive, while sarcolactic acidrotates the plane of polarization to the right. The third acid,ethylene lactic acid, accompanies sarcolactic acid in the juice offlesh, and is optically inactive.-- Lactic ferment, an organized ferment (Bacterium lacticum orlactis), which produces lactic fermentation, decomposing the sugar ofmilk into carbonic and lactic acids, the latter, of which renders themilk sour, and precipitates the casein, thus giving rise to the so-called spontaneous coagulation of milk.-- Lactic fermentation. See under Fermentation.
lactide: A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, byextension, any similar substance.
lactiferous: Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, thelactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.
lactifuge: A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel asupposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.
lactim: One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of animido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam.
lactimide: A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride ofalanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.
lactin: See Lactose.
lactoabumin: The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinaryserum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk.
lactobutyrometer: An instrument for determining the amount of butter fatcontained in a given sample of milk.
lactodensimeter: A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding thedensity of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed withwater or some of the cream has been removed.
lactometer: An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, asa measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.
lactone: One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides ofcertain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, havinga weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactoneis derived from lactic acid.
lactonic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.
lactoprotein: A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent ofmilk.
lactory: Lactiferous. [Obs.] "Lactory or milky plants." Sir T. Browne.
lactoscope: An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained inmilk by ascertaining its relative opacity.
lactose: Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present inmilk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much lesssoluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly calledlactin.
lactuca: A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foesalad; lettuce.
lactucarium: The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used asa substitute for opium.
lactucic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactucavirosa; -- said of certain acids.
lactucin: A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and aneutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients oflactucarium.
lactucone: A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milkysap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredientof lactucarium.
lacturamic: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which isregarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.
lactyl: An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.
lacuna: A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as avacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces leftamong the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place ofvessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac,usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.
lacune: A lacuna. [R.] Landor.
lacwork: Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simplycolored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially ofOriental work of this kind.
lad: of Lead, to guide Chaucer.
ladanum: A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus.It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and forfumigation. [Written also labdanum.]
ladde: of Lead, to guide. Chaucer.
laddie: A lad; a male sweetheart. [Scot.]
lade: To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the formingtable.
lademan: One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant. [Obs. or Local]
laden: Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Is. i. 4.A ship laden with gold. Shak.
ladied: Ladylike; not rough; gentle. [Obs.] "Stroked with a ladiedland." Feltham.
ladify: To make a lady of; to make ladylike. [Obs.] Massinger.
ladin: A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and theTyrol.
ladino: One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; amestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually ofa yellowish orange tinge. Am. Cyc.
ladkin: A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More.
ladle: A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.
ladleful: A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.
ladrone: A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.
lady: The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- socalled from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. Itconsists of calcareous plates. Ladies' man, a man who affects thesociety of ladies.-- Lady altar, an altar in a lady chapel. Shipley.-- Lady chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary.-- Lady court, the court of a lady of the manor.-- Lady crab (Zoöl.), a handsomely spotted swimming crab(Platyonichus ocellatus) very common on the sandy shores of theAtlantic coast of the United States.-- Lady fern. (Bot.) See Female fern, under Female, and Illust. ofFern.-- Lady in waiting, a lady of the queen's household, appointed towait upon or attend the queen.-- Lady Mass, a Mass said in honor of the Virgin Mary. Shipley. Ladyof the manor, a lady having jurisdiction of a manor; also, the wifeof a manor lord. Lady's maid, a maidservant who dresses and waitsupon a lady. Thackeray.-- Our Lady, the Virgin Mary.
lady day: The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. SeeAnnunciation.
lady-killer: A gallant who captivates the hearts of women. "A renowned dandyand lady-killer." Blackw. Mag.
lady-killing: The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.Better for the sake of womankind that this dangerous dog should leaveoff lady-killing. Thackeray.
ladybird: Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genusCoccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidæ); -- called alsoladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinellaseplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.
ladybug: Same as Ladybird.
ladyclock: See Ladyrird.
ladyhood: The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of alady.
ladykin: A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth'stime, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
ladylikeness: The quality or state of being ladylike.
ladylove: A sweetheart or mistress.
ladyship: The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (precededby her or your.)Your ladyship shall observe their gravity. B. Jonson.
laelaps: A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from theCretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hindlegs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of thespecies were about eighteen feet high.
laemmergeyer: See Lammergeir.
laemodipod: One of the Læmodipoda.
laemodipoda: A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is smallor rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. Thewhale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples.
laemodipodous: Of or pertaining to the Læmodipoda.
laetere sunday: . The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin wordLætare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sungthat day in the Roman Catholic service.
laevigate: Having a smooth surface, as if polished.
laevo-: . A prefix. See Levo.
laevorotatory: Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.
laevulose: See Levulose.
laft: of Leave. Chaucer.
lafte: of Leave. Chaucer.
lag: See Graylag. Lag of the tide, the interval by which the time ofhigh water falls behind the mean time, in the first and thirdquarters of the moon; -- opposed to priming of the tide, or theacceleration of the time of high water, in the second and fourthquarters; depending on the relative positions of the sun and moon.-- Lag screw, an iron bolt with a square head, a sharp-edged thread,and a sharp point, adapted for screwing into wood; a screw forfastening lags.
lagan: See Ligan.
lagarto: An alligator. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
lagena: The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; anappendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishesand amphibians.
lagenian: Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera havinga straight, chambered shell.
lageniform: Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.
lager: Lager beer.
lager beer: Originally a German beer, but now also made in immensequantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid upor stored for some months before use.
lager wine: . Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar.Simmonds.
laggard: Slow; sluggish; backward.
lagger: A laggard.
lagging: The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steamcylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering oflags; -- called also deading and cleading.
laggingly: In a lagging manner; loiteringly.
lagly: Laggingly. [Prov. Eng.]
lagomorph: One of the Lagomorpha.
lagomorpha: A group of rodents, including the hares. They have fourincisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.
lagoon: A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving apeculiar staring appearance.
lagopous: Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.
lagthing: See Legislatature, below.
lagune: See Lagoon.
laic: A layman. Bp. Morton.
laicality: The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of alayman.
laically: As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat amatter laically.
laid: of Lay. Laid paper, paper marked with parallel lines or watermarks, as if ribbed, from parallel wires in the mold. It is calledblue laid, cream laid, etc., according to its color.
laidly: Ugly; loathsome. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]This laidly and loathsome worm. W. Howitt.
lain: of Lie, v. i.
lainere: See Lanier. [Obs.] Chaucer.
laird: A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of thecrown. [Scot.]
lairdship: The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property. [Scot.]Ramsay.
laism: See Lamaism. [R.]
laissez faire: Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists,deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster orregulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction;as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire systemgovernment.
lakao: Sap green. [China]
lake: A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually byprecipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminiumhydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc.
lake-dweller: See Lake dwellers, under Lake.
lakelet: A little lake. Southey.
lakeweed: The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant ofEurope and North America.
lakh: Same as Lac, one hundred thousand.
lakin: See Ladykin.
lakke: See Lack. [Obs.] Chaucer.
laky: Pertaining to a lake. Sir W. Scott.
lallation: An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it soundslike l.
lalo: The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans tomix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras.Cf. Couscous.
lam: To beat soundly; to thrash. [Obs. or Low] Beau. & Fl.
lama: See Llama.
lamaic: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
lamaism: A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia,and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of itspriests. See 2d Lama.
lamaistic: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
lamantin: The manatee. [Written also lamentin, and lamantine.]
lamarckian: Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.
lamarckianism: Lamarckism.
lamarckism: The theory that structural variations, characteristic ofspecies and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the directinfluence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals,by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs.
lamasery: A mo
lamb: The young of the sheep.
lambale: A feast at the time of shearing lambs.
lambaste: To beat severely. [Low] Nares.
lambative: Taken by licking with the tongue. "Sirups and lambativemedicines." Sir T. Browne.
lambda: The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures ofthe skull. Lambda moth (Zoöl.), a moth so called from a mark on itswings, resembling the Greek letter lambda (
lambdoid: Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (as, the lambdoid suturebetween the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.
lambdoidal: Same as Lambdoid.
lambert pine: The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (PinusLambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. Thetimber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the EasternStates.
lambkill: A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); --called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel, etc. It is supposed topoison sheep and other animals that eat it at times when the snow isdeep and they cannot find other food.
lambkin: A small lamb.
lamblike: Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.
lamboys: Same as Base, n., 19.
lambskinnet: See Lansquenet.
lamdoidal: Lambdoid. [R.]
lame: To make lame.If you happen to let child fall and lame it. Swift.
lamel: See Lamella.
lamella: a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing fromthe petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales ofwhich certain shells are composed.
lamellary: Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellæ; lamellar.
lamellibranch: One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.
lamellibranchiate: Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.-- n.
lamellicorn: A lamellicorn insect.
lamellicornia: A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called alsoLamellicornes.
lamelliferous: Bearing, or composed of, lamellæ, or thin layers, plates, orscales; foliated.
lamelliform: Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.
lamellirostral: Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.
lamellirostres: A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in whichthe bill is lamellate.
lamellose: Composed of, or having, lamellæ; lamelliform.
lamely: An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walklamely; a figure lamely drawn.
lameness: The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of anexcuse or an argument.
lament: To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. 2 Chron. xxxv. 25.Ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. John xvi. 20.
lamentation: A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah,and taking its name from the nature of its contents.
lamented: Mourned for; bewailed.This humble praise,lamented shade ! receive. Pope.
lamenter: One who laments.
lamentin: See Lamantin.
lamenting: Lamentation.Lamentings heard i' the air. Shak.
lamentingly: In a lamenting manner.
lames: Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one uponthe form a piece of armor.
lametta: Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass. De Colange.
lamia: A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said todevour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; awith.
lamina: The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal orsepal of a flower. Gray.
laminability: The quality or state of being laminable.
laminable: Capable of being split into laminæ or thin plates, as mica;capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.When a body can be readily extended in all directions under thehammer, it is said to be malleable; and when into fillets under therolling press, it is said to be laminable. Ure.
laminaria: A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, ordevil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and aresometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp.
laminarian: Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zoneof the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds ofthis genus grow.
laminarite: A broad-leafed fossil alga.
laminary: Laminar.
laminate: Consisting of, or covered with, laminæ, or thin plates, scales,or layers, one over another; laminated.
laminated: Laminate. Laminated arch (Arch.), a timber arch made of layersof bent planks secured by treenails.
laminating: Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.
lamination: The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.
laminiferous: Having a structure consisting of laminæ, or thin layers.
laminiplantar: Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuouson both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.
laminitis: Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffinbone of a horse; founder. Youatt.
lamish: Somewhat lame. Wood.
lamm: See Lam.
lammas: The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, andLammastide.
lamnunguia: Same as Hyracoidea.
lamp: A thin plate or lamina. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lamp-post: A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp orlantern for lighting a street, park, etc.
lampad: A lamp or candlestick. [R.]By him who 'mid the golden lampads went. Trench.
lampadist: One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.
lampadrome: A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. Hewho reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained theprize.
lampas: An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof ofthe mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- calledalso lampers.
lampate: A supposed salt of lampic acid. [Obs.]
lampblack: The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke ofcarbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in theflame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, withsometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is usedas an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments andcements.
lamper eel: See Lamprey.
lampern: The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, or Lampetra, fluviatilis).
lampers: See Lampas.
lampic: Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of asupposed acid.
lamping: Shining; brilliant. [Obs.] "Lamping eyes." Spenser.
lampless: Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being withoutappreciation; dull.Your ladies' eyes are lampless to that virtue. Beau. & Fl.
lamplight: Light from a lamp.This world's artificial lamplights. Owen Meredith.
lamplighter: The calico bass.
lampoon: A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusivecensure written only to reproach and distress.Like her who missed her name in a lampoon, And grieved to findherself decayed so soon. Dryden.
lampooner: The writer of a lampoon. "Libelers, lampooners, andpamphleteers." Tatler.
lampoonry: The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.
lamprel: See Lamprey.
lamprey: An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and alliedgenera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, butset with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on thepalate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchialopenings on each side. [Written also lamper eel, lamprel, andlampron.]
lampron: See Lamprey.
lampyrine: An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridæ. SeeLampyris.
lampyris: A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.
lanarkite: A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring eithermassive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.
lanary: A place for storing wool.
lancashire boiler: . A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnacesand extend through the boiler from end to end.
lancasterian: Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instructionfollowed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils ina school teach pupils below them.
lance: A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in castinga shell.
lance fish: A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especiallyAmmodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.
lancelet: A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable forthe rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the classLeptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia.
lancely: Like a lance. [R.] Sir P. Sidney.
lanceolar: Lanceolate.
lancepesade: An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties ofa corporal; -- called also lance corporal.
lancer: A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement. [Written alsolanciers.]
lancet: An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace. Knight. Lancetarch (Arch.), a pointed arch, of which the width, or span, is narrowcompared with the height.-- Lancet architecture, a name given to a style of architecture, inwhich lancet arches are common; -- peculiar to England and 13thcentury.-- Lancet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A large, voracious, deep-sea fish(Alepidosaurus ferox), having long, sharp, lancetlike teeth. (b) Thedoctor, or surgeon fish.
lancewood: A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs,archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree whichproduces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana andCuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseæ).Australian lancewood, a myrtaceous tree (Backhousia Australis).
lanch: To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch.See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt. Dryden & Lee.
lanciferous: Bearing a lance.
lanciform: Having the form of a lance.
lancinate: To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab. De Quincey.
lancinating: Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains(i.e., severe, darting pains).
lancination: A tearing; laceration. "Lancinations of the spirit." Jer.Taylor.
land: Urine. See Lant. [Obs.]
land league: In Ireland, a combination of tenant farmers and other,organized, with Charles Stewart Parnell as president, in 1879 with aview to the reduction of farm rents and a reconstruction of the landlaws. -- Land"*lea`guer (#), n. -- Land"*lea`guism (#), n.
land of steady habits: Connecticut; -- a nickname alluding to the moral character ofits inhabitants, implied by the rigid laws (see Blue laws) of theearly period.
land-poor: Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.[Colloq.]
landau: A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is dividedinto two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such amanner as to make an open carriage. [Written also landaw.]
landaulet: A small landau.
lander: A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive thekibble of ore.
landfall: Sighting or making land when at sea. A good landfall (Naut.),the sighting of land in conformity with the navigator's reckoning andexpectation.
landflood: An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.Clarendon.
landgrave: A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl inEngland and of a count in France.
landgravine: The wife of a landgrave.
landholder: A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.-- Land"hold`ing, n. & a.
landing: Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, onshore. Landing charges, charges or fees paid on goods unloaded from avessel.-- Landing net, a small, bag-shaped net, used in fishing to take thefish from the water after being hooked.-- Landing stage, a floating platform attached at one end to a wharfin such a manner as to rise and fall with the tide, and thusfacilitate passage between the wharf and a vessel lying beside thestage.-- Landing waiter, a customhouse officer who oversees the landing ofgoods, etc., from vessels; a landwaiter.
landleaper: See Landlouper.
landless: Having no property in land.
landlock: To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, withland.
landlocked: Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams;-- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning;as, the landlocked salmon.
landloper: Same as Landlouper.
landlordism: The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of alandlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlordsto tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands. J. S.Mill.
landlordry: The state of a landlord. [Obs.]
landlouper: A vagabond; a vagrant. [Written also landleaper and landloper.]"Bands of landloupers." Moltey.
landlouping: Vagrant; wandering about.
landlubber: One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen incontempt or ridicule.
landman: An occupier of land. Cowell.
landowner: An owner of land.
landowning: The owning of land.-- a.
landreeve: A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as anassistant to the steward.
landscapist: A painter of landscapes.
landskip: A landscape. [Obs. except in poetry.]Straight my eye hath caught new pleasures, Whilst the landskip roundit measures. Milton.
landsman: A sailor on his first voyage.
landsthing: See Legislature, below.
landstorm: See Varnpligtige.
landstreight: A narrow strip of land. [Obs.]
landsturm: That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called outlast.
landtag: The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.
landwaiter: See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.
landward: Toward the land.
landwehr: That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which hascompleted the usual military service and is exempt from duty in timeof peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.
lane: Alone [Scot.] His lane, by himself; himself alone.
lang: Long. [Obs. or Scot.]
langaha: A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, fromMadagascar. It is brownish red, and its hose is prolonged in the formof a sharp blade.
langarey: One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds ofAustralia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and alliedgenera; called also wood swallow.
langate: A linen roller used in dressing wounds.
langdak: A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.
langret: A kind of loaded die. [Obs.]
langridge: See Langrage.
langsyne: Long since; long ago. [Scot.]
langteraloo: An old game at cards. See Loo (a) Tatler.
language: To communicate by language; to express in language.Others were languaged in such doubtful expressions that they have adouble sense. Fuller.
languaged: Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used incomposition. " Manylanguaged nations." Pope.
languageless: Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent. Shak.
langued: Tongued; having the tongue visible.Lions . . . represented as armed and langued gules. Cussans.
languente: In a languishing manner; pathetically.
languish: To cause to dr [Obs.] Shak. Dryden.
languisher: One who languishes.
languishingly: In a languishing manner.
languishness: Languishment. [Obs.]
languorous: Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized bylanguor. [Obs. or Poetic]Whom late I left in languorous constraint. Spenser.To wile the length from languorous hours, and draw The sting frompain. Tennyson.
langure: To languish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
langya: One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-waterfishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power ofliving out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called alsowalking fishes.
laniard: See Lanyard.
laniariform: Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth. Owen.
laniary: Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.
laniate: To tear in pieces. [R.]
laniation: A tearing in pieces. [R.]
laniferous: Bearing or producing wool.
lanifical: Working in wool.
lanifice: Anything made of wool. [Obs.] Bacon.
lanigerous: Bearing or producing wool.
lanioid: Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidæ).
lank: To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher.
lankiness: The condition or quality or being lanky.
lankly: In a lank manner.
lankness: The state or quality of being lank.
lanky: Somewhat lank. Thackeray.The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century.
lanolin: A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certainfatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissuesgenerally.
lanseh: The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansiumdomesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.Balfour.
lant: Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares.
lantanuric: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid ofthe uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, andusually called allanturic acid.
lanterloo: An old name of loo (a).
lantern: A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).
lantern-jawed: Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawedperson.
lanthanite: Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular whilecrystals.
lanthanum: A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied toaluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite,orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating itfrom cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it isusually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La. [Formerly writtenalso lanthanium.]
lanthopine: An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extractedas a white crystalline substance.
lanthorn: See Lantern. [Obs.]
lanugo: The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammalfetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.
lanyard: A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships;as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp.,pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds,stays, etc.
lanyer: See Lanier.
laodicean: Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like theChristians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion. Rev. iii. 14-16.
lap: The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps aport in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must movefrom its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Usedalone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).
lap-jointed: Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodworkand metal work.
lap-welded: Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-weldedpipe.
laparocele: A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.
laparotomy: A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Cæsareansection.
lapboard: A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as bytailors.
lapdog: A small dog fondled in the lap.
lapel: That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, thelap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.[Written also lappel and lapelle.]
lapelled: Furnished with lapels.
lapful: As much as the lap can contain.
lapicide: A stonecutter. [Obs.]
lapidarian: Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarianrecord.
lapidarious: Consisting of stones.
lapidate: To stone. [Obs.]
lapidation: The act of stoning. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
lapideous: Of the nature of stone; [Obs.] Ray.
lapidescent: Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacityof being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifyingbodies.
lapidification: The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.
lapidify: To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.
lapidist: A lapidary. Ray.
lapillation: The state of being, or the act of making, stony.
lapilli: Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragmentsor particles.
lapis: A stone. Lapis calaminaris (. Etym
lapis lazuli: An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli,which see.
laplander: A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.
laplandish: Of or pertaining to Lapland.
lapling: One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease andsensual delights; -- a term of contempt.
lapp: Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.
lappaceous: Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forkedpoints.
lapper: One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.
lappet: A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in agarment or headdress. Swift. Lappet moth (Zoöl.), one of severalspecies of bombycid moths, which have stout, hairy caterpillars, flatbeneath. Two common American species (Gastropacha Americana, andTolype velleda) feed upon the apple tree.
lappic: Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.-- n.
lapping: A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calicoprinters. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), Amachine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9.
lappish: Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.-- n.
lapps: A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northernparts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.
lapsable: Lapsible. Cudworth.
lapse: The termination of a right or privilege through neglect toexercise it within the limited time, or through failure of somecontingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.
lapsible: Liable to lapse.
lapsided: See Lopsided.
lapstone: A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.
laputan: Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying islanddescribed in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimericalphilosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science orphilosophy. "Laputan ideas." G. Eliot.
lapwing: A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus,or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for itsrapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its backis coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" ofthe London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit,dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea.
lapwork: Work in which one part laps over another. Grew.
laquay: A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn.
laquear: A lacunar.
laqueary: Using a noose, as a gladiator. [Obs. or R.]Retiary and laqueary combatants. Sir T. Browne.
lar: A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protectorof the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of ahouse; household gods. Hence, Eng.
laramie group: An extensive series of strata, principally developed in theRocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerlysupposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded asCretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. Itcontains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence alsocalled the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology.
larboard: The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward thebow; port; -- opposed to Ant
larcenous: Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act;committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." SydneySmith.-- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv.
larceny: The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal withintent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf.Embezzlement. Grand larceny and Petit larceny are distinctions havingreference to the nature or value of the property stolen. They areabolished in England.-- Mixed, or Compound, larceny, that which, under statute, includesin it the aggravation of a taking from a building or the person.-- Simple larceny, that which is not accompanied with anyaggravating circumstances.
larch: A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, infascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).
larchen: Of or pertaining to the larch. Keats.
lard: To grow fat. [Obs.]
lardacein: A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine andsulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into thespleen, liver, etc.
lardaceous: Consisting of, or resembling, lard. Lardaceous degeneration(Med.), amyloid degeneration.
larder: A room or place where meat and other articles of food are keptbefore they are cooked. Shak.
larderer: One in charge of the larder.
lardery: A larder. [Obs.]
lardry: A larder. [Obs.]
lardy: Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character orconsistency of lard.
lare: Lore; learning. [Obs.]
lares: See 1st Lar.
large: Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction;-- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and thequarter. At large. (a) Without restraint or confinement; as, to go atlarge; to be left at large. (b) Diffusely; fully; in the full extent;as, to discourse on a subject at large.-- Common at large. See under Common, n.-- Electors at large, Representative at large, electors, or arepresentative, as in Congress, chosen to represent the whole of aState, in distinction from those chosen to represent particulardistricts in a State. [U. S.] -- To give, go, run, or sail large(Naut.), to have the wind crossing the direction of a vessel's coursein such a way that the sails feel its full force, and the vesselgains its highest speed. See Large, a., 8.
large-acred: Possessing much land.
large-handed: Having large hands, Fig.
large-hearted: Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble;liberal.-- Large"-heart`ed*ness, n.
largely: In a large manner. Dryden. Milton.
largeness: The quality or state of being large.
larget: A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a smallbillet.
larghetto: Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rathermore so than andante.
largifical: Generous; ample; liberal. [Obs.]
largifluous: Flowing copiously. [Obs.]
largiloquent: Grandiloquent. [Obs.]
largish: Somewhat large. [Colloq.]
largition: The bestowment of a largess or gift. [Obs.]
largo: Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness tograve, which is also weighty and solemn.-- n.
lariat: A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. onewith a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc.,and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering.[Mexico & Western U.S.]
larine: Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ).
larixinic: Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid.
lark: A frolic; a jolly time. [Colloq.] Dickens.
lark-colored: Having the sandy brown color of the European larks.
larker: Indian cress.
larkspur: A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showyflowers, and a spurred calyx. They are natives of the North Temperatezone. The commonest larkspur of the gardens is D. Consolida. Theflower of the bee larkspur (D. elatum) has two petals bearded withyellow hairs, and looks not unlike a bee.
larmier: See Tearpit.
laroid: Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ).
larrikin: A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; --variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youthgiven to horse-play, etc. [Australia & Eng.] -- a.
larrup: To beat or flog soundly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby.
larry: Same as Lorry, or Lorrie.
larum: , See Alarum, and Alarm.
larva: Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egguntil it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usuallymolts several times, and may change its form or color each time. Thelarvæ of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits,but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only inthe pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvæ are totallyunlike the parents in structure and habits, and are calledcaterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc.
larval: Of or pertaining to a larva.
larvalia: An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and alliedgenera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained bythem through life. Called also Copelata. See Appendicularia.
larvate: Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine todoubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvateepilepsy.
larvated: Masked; clothed as with a mask.
larve: A larva.
larviform: Having the form or structure of a larva.
larviparous: Depositing living larvæ, instead of eggs; -- said of certaininsects.
lary: A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.]
laryngeal: Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on thelarynx; as, laryngeal forceps.
laryngean: See Laryngeal.
laryngectomy: Excision of the larynx.
laryngismus: A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction orclosure of the opening.
laryngitis: Inflammation of the larynx.
laryngograph: An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech.
laryngological: Of or pertaining to laryngology.
laryngologist: One who applies himself to laryngology.
laryngology: Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of thelarynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases ofthe larynx.
laryngophony: The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when thelatter is placed upon the larynx.
laryngoscope: An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, forreflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image.
laryngoscopic: Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.
laryngoscopist: One skilled in laryngoscopy.
laryngoscopy: The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with thelaryngoscope.
laryngotome: An instrument for performing laryngotomy.
laryngotomy: The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside ofthe neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removingforeign bodies.
laryngotracheal: Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotrachealcartilage in the frog.
laryngotracheotomy: The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part ofthe trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing.
larynx: The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connectedwith the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, whichproduce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and acurrent of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with thepharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protectedby a lidlike epiglottis.
las: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lascar: A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menialemployed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. [EastIndies]
lascious: Loose; lascivious. [Obs.] "To depaint lascious wantonness."Holland.
lasciviency: Lasciviousness; wantonness. [Obs.]
lascivient: Lascivious. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
laserwort: Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of severalspecies (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields aresinous substance of a bitter taste. The genus is mostly European.
lash: ,. v. i. To ply the whip; to strike; to uttercensure orsarcastic language.To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden.To lash out, to strike out wildly or furiously.
lasher: One who whips or lashes.
lashing: The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation;chastisement. South. Lashing out, a striking out; also, extravagance.
lask: A diarrhea or flux. [Obs.] Holland.
lasket: latching.
lass: A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.
lasse: Less. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lassie: A young girl; a lass. [Scot.]
lassitude: A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functionsare performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of thewill; languor; debility; weariness.The corporeal instruments of action being strained to a high pitch .. . will soon feel a lassitude. Barrow.
lasslorn: Forsaken by a lass. Shak.
lasso: A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used forcatching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiarkind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in greatnumbers in all coelenterates, and in a few animals of other groups.They are most highly developed in the tentacles of jellyfishes,hydroids, and Actiniæ. Each of these cells is filled with, fluid, andcontains a long, slender, often barbed, hollow thread coiled upwithin it. When the cell contracts the thread is quickly ejected,being at the same time turned inside out. The thread is able topenetrate the flesh of various small, soft-bodied animals, andcarries a subtle poison by which they are speedily paralyzed andkilled. The threads, at the same time, hold the prey in position,attached to the tentacles. Some of the jellyfishes, as the Portugueseman-of-war, and Cyanea, are able to penetrate the human skin, andinflict painful stings in the same way. Called also nettling cell,cnida, cnidocell.
last: of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
laste: of Last, to endure. Chaucer.
laster: A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, orplace leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on alast.
lastery: A red color.[Obs.] Spenser.
lasting: Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lastinggood or evil; a lasting color.
lastingly: In a lasting manner.
lat: To let; to allow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
latakia: A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called fromthe place where produced, the ancient Laodicea.
latch: To smear; to anoint. [Obs.] Shak.
latchet: The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.
latching: A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which itis attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket.[Usually in pl.]
latchkey: A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. anight latch.
latchstring: A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside.It is fastened to the latch and passed through a hole above it in thedoor. To find the latchstring out, to meet with hospitality; to bewelcome. (Intrusion is prevented by drawing in the latchstring.)[Colloq. U.S.]
lated: Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak.
lateen: Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterraneanand adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below.Lateen sail. Etym
lately: Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.
latence: Latency. Coleridge.
latency: The state or quality of being latent.To simplify the discussion, I shall distinguish three degrees of thislatency. Sir W. Hamilton.
lateness: The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, thelateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness ofthe season.
latent: Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.The evils latent in the most promising contrivances are provided foras they arise. Burke.Latent buds (bot.), buds which remain undeveloped or dormant for along time, but may at length grow. Latent heat (Physics), thatquantity of heat which disappears or becomes concealed in a bodywhile producing some change in it other than rise of temperature, asfusion, evaporation, or expansion, the quantity being constant foreach particular body and for each species of change.-- Latent period. (a) (Med.) The regular time in which a disease issupposed to be existing without manifesting itself. (b) (Physiol.)One of the phases in a simple muscular contraction, in whichinvisible preparatory changes are taking place in the nerve andmuscle. (c) (Biol.) One of those periods or resting stages in thedevelopment of the ovum, in which development is arrested prior torenewed activity.
latently: In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.
later: A brick or tile. Knight.
laterad: Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed tomesiad.
lateral: Lying at, or extending toward, the side; away from the mesialplane; external; -- opposed to mesial.
laterality: The state or condition of being lateral.
laterally: By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side.
lateran: The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being thecathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches inthe Catholic world.
latered: Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is toolatered." Chaucer.
laterifolious: Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, alaterifolious flower.
laterite: An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; --found in India.
lateritic: consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as,lateritic formations.
lateritious: Like bricks; of the color of red bricks. Lateritious sediment(Med.), a sediment in urine resembling brick dust, observed after thecrises of fevers, and at the termination of gouty paroxysms. Itusually consists of uric acid or urates with some coloring matter.
lates: A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (LatesNiloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer
latescence: A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.
latescent: Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescentmeaning. Sir W. Hamilton.
latewake: See Lich wake, under Lich.
lateward: Somewhat late; backward. [Obs.] "Lateward lands." Holland.
latex: A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (calledlatex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles ofthe plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instancesyields caoutchouc upon coagulation.
lath: A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, orfloor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles,plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimesused. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor onwhich malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail forfastening laths.
lath-shaped: Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of thefeldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopicsections.
lathe: Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo-Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and isconfined to the county of Kent. [Written also lath.] Brande & C.
lather: To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face.
lathing: The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively;a covering of laths.
lathwork: Same as Lathing.
lathy: Like a lath; long and slender.A lathy horse, all legs and length. R. Browning.
latian: Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy.See Latin.
latibulize: To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; toretreat and lie hid. [R.] G. Shaw.
latibulum: A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.
laticiferous: Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubularvessels in which the latex of the plant is found.
laticlave: A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn bysenators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office.
laticostate: Broad-ribbed.
latidentate: Broad-toothed.
latigo: A strap for tightening a saddle girth. [Western U. S. & Sp.Amer.]
latigo halter: A kind of halter usually made of raw hide.
latimer: An interpreter. [Obs.] Coke.
latin: A member of the Roman Catholic Church. (Dog Latin, barbarousLatin; a jargon in imitation of Latin; as, the log Latin ofschoolboys.-- Late Latin, Low Latin, terms used indifferently to designate thelatest stages of the Latin language; low Latin (and, perhaps, lateLatin also), including the barbarous coinages from the French,German, and other languages into a Latin form made after the Latinhad become a dead language for the people.-- Law Latin, that kind of late, or low, Latin, used in statutes andlegal instruments; -- often barbarous.
latinism: A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a modeof speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.
latinist: One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar. Cowper.He left school a good Latinist. Macaulay.
latinistic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin styleor idiom. "Latinistic words." Fitzed. Hall.
latinitaster: One who has but a smattering of Latin. Walker.
latinity: The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof;specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom. "His eleLatinity."Motley.
latinization: The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, orcountry.The Germanization of Britain went far deeper than the Latinization ofFrance. M. Arnold.
latinize: To use words or phrases borrowed from the Latin. Dryden.
latinly: In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin. [Obs.]Heylin.
lation: Transportation; conveyance. [Obs.]
latirostres: The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and theirallies.
latish: Somewhat late. [Colloq.]
latisternal: Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoidapes.
latitancy: Act or state of lying hid, or lurking. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
latitant: Lying hid; concealed; latent. [R.]
latitat: A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned washiding. Blackstone.
latitation: A lying in concealment; hiding. [Obs.]
latitude: Distance north or south of the equator, measured on a meridian.
latitudinal: Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude.
latitudinarian: A member of the Church of England, in the time of Charles II.,who adopted more liberal notions in respect to the authority,government, and doctrines of the church than generally prevailed.They were called "men of latitude;" and upon this, men of narrowthoughts fastened upon them the name of latitudinarians. Bp. Burnet.
latitudinarianism: A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion inmatters pertaining to religious belief.Fierce sectarianism bred fierce latitudinarianism. De Quincey.He [Ammonius Saccas] plunged into the wildest latitudinarianism ofopinion. J. S. Harford.
latitudinous: Having latitude, or wide extent.
latrant: Barking. [Obs.] Tickell.
latrate: To bark as a dog. [Obs.]
latration: A barking. [Obs.]
latria: The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; --distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferiorworship paid to saints.
latrine: A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc.
latrociny: Theft; larceny. [Obs.]
latter-day saint: A Mormon; -- the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saintsbeing the name assumed by the whole body of Mormons.
latterday: Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.
latterkin: A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice.
latterly: Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from aformer, period.Latterly Milton was short and thick. Richardson.
lattermath: The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath.
lattice: The representation of a piece of latticework used as a bearing,the bands being vertical and horizontal. Lattice bridge, a bridgesupported by lattice girders, or latticework trusses.-- Lattice girder (Arch.), a girder of which the wed consists ofdiagonal pieces crossing each other in the manner of latticework.-- Lattice plant (Bot.), an aquatic plant of Madagascar (Ouvirandrafenestralis), whose leaves have interstices between their ribs andcross veins, so as to resemble latticework. A second species is O.Berneriana. The genus is merged in Aponogeton by recent authors.
latticework: Same as Lattice, n., 1.
latticing: A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces betweenprincipal longitudinal members, as of a strut.
latus rectum: The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel tothe directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is theparameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter.
laud: To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; tocelebrate; to extol.With all the company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy gloriousname. Book of Common Prayer.
laudability: Laudableness; praiseworthiness.
laudable: Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promotehealing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus.Arbuthnot.
laudableness: The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness;commendableness.
laudably: In a laudable manner.
laudanine: A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained fromcertain varieties of opium.
laudanum: Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.
laudation: The act of lauding; praise; high commendation.
laudative: Laudatory.
laudator: An arbitrator. [Obs.] Cowell.
laudatory: Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as,laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden. Sir J. Stephen.
lauder: One who lauds.
laugh: An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the soundheard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i.And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind. Goldsmith.That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a heartylaugh. F. W. Robertson.
laughable: Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughablescene.
laughing: from Laugh, v. i. Laughing falcon (Zoöl.), a South Americanhawk (Herpetotheres cachinnans); -- so called from its notes, whichresemble a shrill laughing.-- Laughing gas (Chem.), hyponitrous oxide, or protoxide ofnitrogen; -- so called from the exhilaration and laughing which itsometimes produces when inhaled. It is much used as an anæstheticagent.-- Laughing goose (Zoöl.), the European white-fronted goose.-- Laughing gull. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gull (Xemaridibundus); -- called also pewit, black cap, red-legged gull, andsea crow. (b) An American gull (Larus atricilla). In summer the headis nearly black, the back slate color, and the five outer primariesblack.-- Laughing hyena (Zoöl.), the spotted hyena. See Hyena.-- Laughing jackass (Zoöl.), the great brown kingfisher (Dacelogigas), of Australia; -- called also giant kingfisher, and gogobera.-- Laughing owl (Zoöl.), a peculiar owl (Sceloglaux albifacies) ofNew Zealand, said to be on the verge of extinction. The name alludesto its notes.
laughingly: With laughter or merriment.
laughingstock: An object of ridicule; a butt of sport. Shak.When he talked, he talked nonsense, and made himself thelaughingstock of his hearers. Macaulay.
laughsome: Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry. [R.]
laughter: A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face,particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes,indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision, and usually attendedby a sonorous and interrupted expulsion of air from the lungs. SeeLaugh, v. i.The act of laughter, which is a sweet contraction of the muscles ofthe face, and a pleasant agitation of the vocal organs, is notmerely, or totally within the jurisdiction of ourselves. Sir T.Browne.Archly the maiden smiled, and with eyes overrunning with laughter.Longfellow.
laughterless: Not laughing; without laughter.
laughworthy: Deserving to be laughed at. [R.] B. Jonson.
laumontite: A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster. It is ahydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Exposed to the air, it loseswater, becomes opaque, and crumbles. [Written also laumonite.]
launce: A lance. [Obs.]
launcegaye: See Langegaye. [Obs.]
launch: To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocksinto the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch intothe current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; tolaunch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Lukev. 4.He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior.
laund: A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.]In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer.Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak.
launder: A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from thebox where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or otherapparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore.
launderer: One who follows the business of laundering.
laundering: The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing andironing.
laundress: A woman whose employment is laundering.
laundryman: A man who follows the business of laundering.
laura: A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhoodoccupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley.
lauraceous: Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) oftrees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including thelaurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc.
laurate: A salt of lauric acid.
laureate: Crowned, or decked, with laurel. Chaucer.To strew the laureate hearse where Lycid lies. Milton.Soft on her lap her laureate son reclines. Pope.Poet laureate. (b) One who received an honorable degree in grammar,including poetry and rhetoric, at the English universities; -- socalled as being presented with a wreath of laurel. [Obs.] (b)Formerly, an officer of the king's household, whose business was tocompose an ode annually for the king's birthday, and other suitableoccasions; now, a poet officially distinguished by such honorarytitle, the office being a sinecure. It is said this title was firstgiven in the time of Edward IV. [Eng.]
laureateship: State, or office, of a laureate.
laureation: The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring anacademic degree, or honorary title.
laurel: An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), havingaromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small,yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.
laureled: Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate.[Written also laurelled.]
laurentian: Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, theLaurentian hills. Laurentian period (Geol.), the lower of the twodivisions of the Archæan age; -- called also the Laurentian.
laurer: Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.
laurestine: The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south ofEurope, which flowers during the winter mouths. [Written alsolaurustine and laurestina.]
lauric: Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel(Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystallinesubstance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from thefruit of the bay tree, and other sources.
lauriferous: Producing, or bringing, laurel.
laurin: A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of thebay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerinethers of several organic acids.
laurinol: Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name(Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.
lauriol: Spurge laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.
laurite: A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum inBorneo and Oregon.
laurone: The ketone of lauric acid.
laurus: A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, onlythe true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis ofMadeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphortree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs,were also referred to the genus Laurus.
laus: Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lava: The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissuredsides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It alsoissues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds coveringmany square miles, as in the Northwestern United States.
lavaret: A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in themountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland.
lavatic: Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.
lavation: A washing or cleansing. [Obs. or R.]
lavatory: Washing, or cleansing by washing.
lavature: A wash or lotion. [Obs.]
lave: To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise.His feet the foremost breakers lave. Byron.
lave-eared: Having large, pendent ears. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
laveer: To beat against the wind; to tack. [Obs.] Dryden.
lavement: A washing or bathing; also, a clyster.
lavender: An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common inthe south of Europe. It yields and oil used in medicine andperfumery. The Spike lavender (L. Spica) yields a coarser oil (oil ofspike), used in the arts.
laver: One who laves; a washer. [Obs.]
laverock: The lark. [Old Eng. & Scot.] [Written also lavrock.] Gower.
lavic: See Lavatic.
lavish: To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; tosquander; as, to lavish money or praise.
lavisher: One who lavishes.
lavishly: In a lavish manner.
lavishment: The act of lavishing.
lavishness: The quality or state of being lavish.
lavoesium: A supposed new metallic element. It is said to have beendiscovered in pyrites, and some other minerals, and to be of asilver-white color, and malleable.
lavoltateer: A dancer of the lavolta.
lavour: A laver. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lavrock: Same as Laverock.
law: Same as Lawe, v. t. [Obs.]
law-abiding: Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for theenforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law;as, law-abiding people.
lawbreaker: One who disobeys the law; a criminal.-- Law"break`ing, n. & a.
lawe: To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet.Wright.
lawer: A lawyer. [Obs.] Bale.
lawgiver: One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator.
lawgiving: Enacting laws; legislative.
lawing: Going to law; litigation. Holinshed.
lawmaker: A legislator; a lawgiver.
lawmaking: Enacting laws; legislative.-- n.
lawmonger: A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade.Milton.
lawn: A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a ratheropen texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's officialdress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the officeitself.A saint in crape is twice in lawn. Pope.
lawnd: See Laund.
lawny: Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like alawn.Musing through the lawny park. T. Warton.
lawsonia: An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), withsmooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers. Henna is preparedfrom the leaves and twigs. In England the shrub is called Egyptianprivet, and in the West Indies, Jamaica mignonette.
lawsuit: An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legalproceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim.
lawyer: Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity. "Lawyerlymooting of this point." Milton.
lax: A looseness; diarrhea.
laxation: The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of beingloosened or slackened.
laxative: Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, andrelieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent.-- n. (Med.)
laxativeness: The quality of being laxative.
laxator: That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contractionloosens some part.
laxiity: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,strictness, or exactness.
laxity: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,strictness, or exactness.
laxly: In a lax manner.
laxness: The state of being lax; laxity.
lay: of Lie, to recline.
lay reader: A layman authorized to read parts of the public service of thechurch.
layer: That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, orfold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth;a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion.
layering: A propagating by layers. Gardner.
layette: The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborninfant, and placed ready for used.
layland: Land lying untilled; fallow ground. [Obs.] Blount.
layner: A whiplash. [Obs.]
layship: The condition of being a layman. [Obs.] Milton.
lazar: A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; aleper. Chaucer.Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser.Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine.
lazaret fever: Typhus fever.
lazaroni: See Lazzaroni.
lazarwort: Laserwort.
laze: To be lazy or idle. [Colloq.] Middleton.
lazily: In a lazy manner. Locke.
laziness: The state or quality of being lazy.Laziness travels so slowly, that Poverty soon overtakes him.Franklin.
lazuli: A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small roundedmasses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, withsome sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins ofsulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called alsolapis lazuli, and Armenian stone.
lazulite: A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in smallmasses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar. It is a hydrousphosphate of alumina and magnesia.
lazyback: A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage.[Colloq.]
lazybones: A lazy person. [Colloq.]
lazzaroni: The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work orbegging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which servesas their refuge. [Written also, but improperly, lazaroni.]
lea: A meadow or sward land; a grassy field. "Plow-torn leas." Shak.The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray.
leach: See 3d Leech.
leachy: Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable ofretaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandysoils, and the like.
lead: One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, havinga bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleableand ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes,sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easilyfusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient ofsolder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum).It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide.
leaded: Separated by leads, as the lines of a page.
leader: A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a lineof gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached.(i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, butindicating the proximity of a better one.
leadership: The office of a leader.
leadhillite: A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting ofthe sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having beenfirst found at Leadhills, Scotland.
leading: Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leadingmotive; a leading man; a leading example.-- Lead"ing*ly, adv. Leading case (Law), a reported decision whichhas come to be regarded as settling the law of the question involved.Abbott.-- Leading motive Etym
leading edge: same as Advancing edge, above.
leadman: One who leads a dance.[Obs.] B. Jonson.
leadsman: The man who heaves the lead. Totten.
leadwort: A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europæa has lead-colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers.
leady: Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot.
leaf: A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of astem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant iselaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plantwhich collectively constitute its foliage.
leaf-footed: Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certaininsects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus).
leaf-nosed: Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certainbats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire.
leafage: Leaves, collectively; foliage.
leafcup: A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia).
leafed: Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used incomposition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed.
leafet: A leaflet.
leafiness: The state of being leafy.
leafless: Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. "Leaflessgroves." Cowper.-- Leaf"less*ness, n. Leafless plants, plants having no foliage,though leaves may be present in the form of scales and bracts. SeeLeaf, n., 1 and 2.
leaflet: One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole.
leafstalk: The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf.
league: An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, orpersons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires acontinued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtheranceof commercial, religious, or political interests, etc.And let there be 'Twixt us and them no league, nor amity. Denham.
leaguer: To besiege; to beleaguer. [Obs.]
leaguerer: A besieger. [R.] J. Webster.
leak: Leaky. [Obs.] Spenser.
leakage: An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking ofcasks, or waste of liquors by leaking.
leakiness: The quality of being leaky.
leal: Faithful; loyal; true.All men true and leal, all women pure. Tennyson.Land of the leal, the place of the faithful; heaven.
leam: See Leme. [Obs.] Holland.
leamer: A dog held by a leam.
lean: To conceal. [Obs.] Ray.
lean-faced: slender or narrow; -- said of type the letters of which havethin lines, or are unusually narrow in proportion to their height. W.Savage.
lean-to: Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof.-- n.
lean-witted: Having but little sense or shrewdness.
leaning: The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, aleaning towards Calvinism.
leanly: Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.
leanness: The condition or quality of being lean.
leany: Lean. [Obs.] Spenser.
leap: A fault.
leap year: . Bissextile; a year containing 366 days; every fourth yearwhich leaps over a day more than a common year, giving to Februarytwenty-nine days. See Bissextile.
leaper: One who, or that which, leaps.
leapfrog: A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leapsover him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former.
leapful: A basketful. [Obs.]
leaping: from Leap, to jump. Leaping house, a brothel. [Obs.] Shak.-- Leaping pole, a pole used in some games of leaping.-- Leaping spider (Zoöl.), a jumping spider; one of the Saltigradæ.
leapingly: By leaps.
lear: To learn. See Lere, to learn. [Obs.]
learn: To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiringknowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, thischild learns quickly.Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Matt. xi. 29.To learn by heart. See By heart, under Heart.-- To learn by rote, to memorize by repetition without exercise ofthe understanding.
learnable: Such as can be learned.
learned: Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by,learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, alearned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory.The learnedlover lost no time. Spenser.Men of much reading are greatly learned, but may be little knowing.Locke.Words of learned length and thundering sound. Goldsmith.The learned, learned men; men of erudition; scholars.-- Learn"ed*ly, adv. Learn"ed*ness, n.Every coxcomb swears as learnedly as they. Swift.
learner: One who learns; a scholar.
leasable: Such as can be leased.
lease: To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean. [Obs.]Dryden.
leasehold: Held by lease.
leaseholder: A tenant under a lease.-- Lease"hold`ing, a. & n.
leaser: One who leases or gleans. [Obs.] Swift.
leash: A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of anykind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, thenumber three in general.[I] kept my chamber a leash of days. B. Jonson.Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings. Tennyson.
leasing: The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies. [Archaic] Spenser.Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing. Ps. v. 6.Blessed be the lips that such a leasing told. Fairfax.Leasing making (Scots Law), the uttering of lies or libels upon thepersonal character of the sovereign, his court, or his family. Bp.Burnet.
leasow: A pasture. [Obs.]
least: Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; mostunimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.
leasy: Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham.
leat: An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. C.Kingsley.
leather: To beat, as with a thong of leather. [Obs. or Colloq.] G.Eliot.
leatherback: A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell onits back. It is common in the warm and temperate parts of theAtlantic, and sometimes weighs over a thousand pounds; -- called alsoleather turtle, leathery turtle, leather-backed tortoise, etc.
leatherhead: The friar bird.
leathern: Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse."A leathern girdle about his loins." Matt. iii. 4.
leatherneck: The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus).
leatherwood: A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, softwood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in theNorthern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy. Gray.
leathery: Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough. "Aleathery skin." Grew.
leave: To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. G. Fletcher.
leave-taking: Taking of leave; parting compliments. Shak.
leaved: Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used incombination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long-leaved.
leaveless: Leafless. [Obs.] Carew.
leavenous: Containing leaven. Milton.
leaver: One who leaves, or withdraws.
leaves: pl. of Leaf.
leaviness: Leafiness.[Obs.]
leavy: Leafy. [Obs.] Chapman.
lecama: The hartbeest.
lecanomancy: divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing threestones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought.
lecanoric: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which isobtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.),as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, ordiorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc.
lecanorin: See Lecanoric.
lech: To lick. [Obs.]
leche: See water buck, under 3d Buck.
lecher: A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree,to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce withwomen.
lecherer: See Lecher, n. Marston.
lecherous: Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust-provoking. "A lecherous thing is wine." Chaucer.-- Lech"er*ous*ly, adv.-- Lech"er*ous*ness, n.
lecithin: A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widelydistributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous inthe brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white bloodcorpuscles.
lectern: See Lecturn.
lectica: A kind of litter or portable couch.
lection: A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divineservice.
lectionary: A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service.
lector: A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to readlessons to the illiterate.
lectual: Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease.
lecture: A rehearsal of a lesson.
lecturer: One who lectures; an assistant preacher.
lectureship: The office of a lecturer.
lecturn: A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which thelections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a readingdesk. [Written also lectern and lettern]. Fairholt.
lecythis: A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the orderMyrtaceæ, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid. LecythisZabucajo yields the delicious sapucaia nuts. L. Ollaria produces themonkey-pots, its capsules. Its bark separates into thin sheets, likepaper, used by the natives for cigarette wrappers.
led: of Lead. Led captain. An obsequious follower or attendant.[Obs.] Swift.-- Led horse, a sumpter horse, or a spare horse, that is led along.
ledge: A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral.
ledgement: See Ledgment.
ledgy: Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgyisland.
lee: , i, To lie; to speak falsely. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leeboard: A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vesselto lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught.
leech: See 2d Leach.
leechcraft: The art of healing; skill of a physician. [Archaic] Chaucer.
leef: See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leek: A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum), having broadly linearsucculent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. Theflavor is stronger than that of the common onion. Wild leek , inAmerica, a plant (Allium tricoccum) with a cluster of ovoid bulbs andlarge oblong elliptical leaves.
leeme: See Leme. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leep: of Leap. leaped.
leer: To learn. [Obs.] See Lere, to learn.
leere: Tape or braid; an ornament. Halliwell. Leere side, the leftside, as that on which a leere or ornament was worn. B. Jonson.
leeringly: In a leering manner.
lees: Dregs. See 2d Lee.
leese: To lose. [Obs.]They would rather leese their friend than their jest. Lord Burleigh.
leet: of Let, to allow. Chaucer.
leetman: One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet.
leeward: Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side towardwhich the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; aleeward ship.-- n.
leeway: The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course;drift.
left: of Leave.
left-hand: Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as,the left-hand side; the left-hand road. Left-hand rope, rope laid upand twisted over from right to left, or against the sun; -- calledalso water-laid rope.
left-handed: The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.An awkward address, ungraceful attitudes and actions, and a certainleft-handiness (if I may use the expression) proclaim low education.Chesterfield.
left-off: Laid a side; cast-off.
leftward: Toward or on the left side.Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey.
leful: See Leveful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leg: The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or betweentacks.
leg bridge: A type of bridge for small spans in which the floor girders arerigidly secured at their extremities to supporting steel legs, driveninto the round as piling, or resting on mudsills.
leg-of-mutton: Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, aleg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.
legal: Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules ofequity; as, legal estate; legal assets. Bouvier. Burrill. Legal cap.See under Cap.-- Legal tender. (a) The act of tendering in the performance of acontract or satisfaction of a claim that which the law prescribes orpermits, and at such time and place as the law prescribes or permits.(b) That currency, or money, which the law authorizes a debtor totender and requires a creditor to receive. It differs in differentcountries.
legalism: Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming tolaw.
legalist: One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; intheology, one who holds to the law of works. See Legal, 2 (a).
legalization: The act of making legal.
legalize: To interpret or apply in a legal spirit.
legally: In a legal manner.
legantine: See Legatine.
legatary: A legatee. [R.] Ayliffe.
legatee: One to whom a legacy is bequeathed.
legateship: The office of a legate.
legatine: Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power. Holinshed.
legato: Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to beproduced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is oftenindicated by a tie, thus staccato.
legator: A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy. Dryden.
legatura: A tie or brace; a syncopation.
legature: Legateship. [Obs.]
lege: To allege; to assert. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.
legement: See Ledgment.
legend: To tell or narrate, as a legend. Bp. Hall.
legendary: Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting oflegends; like a legend; fabulous. "Legendary writers." Bp. Lloyd.Legendary stories of nurses and old women. Bourne.
leger: Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, legerambassador.
legerdemain: Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artfuldeception or trick.He of legierdemayne the mysteries did know. Spenser.The tricks and legerdemain by which men impose upon their own souls.South.
legerdemainist: One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.
legerity: Lightness; nimbleness [Archaic] Shak.
legge: To lay. [Obs.]
legged: Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, along-legged man; a two-legged animal.
legging: , from Leg, v. t.
leggy: Having long legs. Thackeray.
leghorn: A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the strawof a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany,Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation.
legibility: The quality of being legible; legibleness. Sir. D. Brewster.
legibleness: The state or quality of being legible.
legibly: In a legible manner.
legific: Of or pertaining to making laws.Practically, in many cases, authority or legific competence has begunin bare power. J. Grote.
legion: A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of differentnumbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to aboutsix thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.
legionary: Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or ofan indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionaryforce. "The legionary body of error." Sir T. Browne.
legioned: Formed into a legion or legions; legionary. Shelley.
legionry: A body of legions; legions, collectively. [R.] Pollok.
legislate: To make or enact a law or laws.Solon, in legislating for the Athenians, had an idea of a moreperfect constitution than he gave them. Bp. Watson (1805).
legislation: The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; thelaws enacted.Pythagoras joined legislation to his philosophy. Lyttelton.
legislatively: In a legislative manner.
legislator: A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; amember of a legislative body.The legislators in ancient and heroical times. Bacon.Many of the legislators themselves had taken an oath of abjuration ofhis Majesty's person and family. E. Phillips.
legislatorial: Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.
legislatorship: The office of a legislator. Halifax.
legislature: The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with powerto make and repeal laws; a legislative body.Without the concurrent consent of all three parts of the legislature,no law is, or can be, made. Sir M. Hale.
legist: One skilled in the laws; a writer on law. Milman. J. Morley.
legitim: The portion of movable estate to which the children areentitled upon the death of the father.
legitimacy: The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformitywith law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, orborn in wedlock.The doctrine of Divine Right, which has now come back to us, like athief from transportation, under the alias of Legitimacy. Macaulay.
legitimate: To make legitimate, lawful, or valid; esp., to put in theposition or state of a legitimate person before the law, by legalmeans; as, to legitimate a bastard child.To enact a statute of that which he dares not seem to approve, evento legitimate vice. Milton.
legitimately: In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely.
legitimateness: The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness;genuineness.
legitimatist: See Legitimist.
legitimatize: To legitimate.
legitimism: The principles or plans of legitimists.
legitimize: To legitimate.
legless: Not having a leg.
lego-literary: Pertaining to the literature of law.
leguleian: Lawyerlike; legal. [R.] "Leguleian barbarism." De Quincey.-- n.
legume: A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seedattached at one suture, as that of the pea.
legumen: Same as Legume.
legumin: An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as acharacteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain-bearing plants.
leguminous: Belonging to, or resembling, a very large natural order ofplants (Leguminosæ), which bear legumes, including peas, beans,clover, locust trees, acacias, and mimosas.
leiger: See Leger, n., 2. [Obs.] Shak.
leiotrichan: Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi.-- n.
leiotrichi: The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races.
leiotrichous: Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair.
leipoa: A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a singlespecies (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color isvariegated, drown, black, white, and gray. Called also nativepheasant.
leipothymic: See Lipothymic.
leisurably: At leisure. [Obs.]
leisure: Unemployed; as, leisure hours.
leisured: Having leisure. "The leisured classes." Gladstone.
leisurely: Characterized by leisure; taking abundant tome; not hurried;as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk.
leitmotif: See Leading motive, under Leading, a.
leman: A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; --usually in a bad sense. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. Shak.
leme: A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lemma: A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or acceptedfor immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, asin mathematics or logic.
lemman: A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lemming: Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of thegenera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form. Theyare found in both hemispheres.
lemnian: Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos. Lemnian bole, Lemnianearth, an aluminous earth of a grayish yellow color; sphragide; --formerly sold as medicine, having astringent properties.-- Lemnian reddle, a reddle of firm consistence and deep red color;-- used by artificers in coloring.
lemniscus: One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of thebody in the Acanthocephala.
lemon: An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containinga pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree ofthe genus Citrus,the common fruit known in commerce being that of thespecies C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are manyvarieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet.
lemonade: A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water andsweetened.
lemur: One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to themonkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle,and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and aremostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus(Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the EastIndies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo.
lemures: Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters.The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton.
lemuria: A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to haveexisted formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is aremnant. Herschel.
lemurid: Same as Lemuroid.
lemuroid: Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea.-- n.
lemuroidea: A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, andallied species. [Written also Lemuroida.]
lena: A procuress. J. Webster.
lenard rays: Rays emanating from the outer surface of a plate composed ofany material permeable by cathode rays, as aluminium, which forms aportion of a wall of a vacuum tube, or which is mounted within thetube and exposed to radiation from the cathode. Lenard rays aresimilar in all their known properties to cathode rays. So called fromthe German physicist Philipp Lenard (b. 1862), who first describedthem.
lenard tube: A tube for producing Lenard rays.
lendable: Such as can be lent. Sherwood.
lender: One who lends.The borrower is servant to the lender. Prov. xxii. 7.
lendes: See Lends. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lends: Loins. [Obs.] Wyclif.
lene: To lend; to grant; to permit. [Obs.] Chaucer.
length: To lengthen. [Obs.] Shak.
lengthen: To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as,to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followedby out.What if I please to lengthen out his date. Dryden.
lengthful: Long. [Obs.] Pope.
lengthily: In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent.
lengthiness: The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.
lengthy: Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; --said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like. "Lengthyperiods." Washington. "Some lengthy additions." Byron. "These wouldbe details too lengthy." Jefferson. "To cut short lengthyexplanations." Trench.
lenient: A lenitive; an emollient.
leniently: In a lenient manner.
lenify: To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden.
leniment: An assuasive. [Obs.]
lenitive: Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain oracrimony; assuasive; emollient.
lenitiveness: The quality of being lenitive.
lenitude: The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity. [Obs.] Blount.
lenity: The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper ordisposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency;-- opposed to severity and rigor.His exceeding lenity disposes us to be somewhat too severe. Macaulay.
lenni-lenape: A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerlyoccupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut toVirginia. They included the Mohicans, Delawares, Shawnees, andseveral other tribes.
leno: A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.
lenocinant: Given to lewdness. [Obs.]
lens: A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground withtwo opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved andthe other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, inoptical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, andthus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice,the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical,or of some other figure. Lenses
lent: imp. & p. p. of Lend.
lent lily: the daffodil; -- so named from its blossoming in spring.
lentamente: Slowly; in slow time.
lentando: Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando.
lenten: Lent. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
lententide: The season of Lenten or Lent.
lenticellate: Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels.
lenticelle: Lenticel.
lenticula: A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.
lenticular: Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of adouble-convex lens.
lenticularly: In the manner of a lens; with a curve.
lentiform: Lenticular.
lentiginose: Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles.
lentiginous: Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous.
lentigo: A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles.
lentil: A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of smallsize, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is usedfor food on the continent.
lentitude: Slowness; sluggishness. [Obs.]
lento: Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.
lentoid: Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped.
lentous: Viscid; viscous; tenacious.Spawn of a lentous and transparent body. Sir T. Browne.
leod: People; a nation; a man. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Bp. Gibson.
leon: A lion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leonced: See Lionced.
leonese: Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain.-- n. sing. & pl.
leonid: One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower thatrecurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty-three years; so called because shooting stars appear on the heavensto move in lines directed from the constellation Leo.
leonine: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leoninelook; leonine repacity.-- Le"o*nine*ly, adv. Leonine verse, a kind of verse, in which theend of the line rhymes with the middle; -- so named from Leo, orLeoninus, a Benedictine and canon of Paris in the twelfth century,who wrote largely in this measure, though he was not the inventor.The following line is an example:Gloria factorum temere conceditur horum.
leontodon: A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the falldandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- calledalso lion's tooth.
leopard: A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus). It is ofa yellow or fawn color, with rings or roselike clusters of blackspots along the back and sides. It is found in Southern Asia andAfrica. By some the panther (Felis pardus) is regarded as a varietyof leopard. Hunting leopard. See Cheetah. Leopard cat (Zoöl.) any oneof several species or varieties of small, spotted cats found inAfrica, Southern Asia, and the East Indies; esp., Felis Bengalensis.-- Leopard marmot. See Gopher, 2.
leopardwood: See Letterwood.
lep: of Leap. Leaped. Chaucer.
lepadite: Same as Lepadoid.
lepadoid: A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; agoose barnacle. Also used adjectively.
lepal: A sterile transformed stamen.
lepas: Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculatedbarnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulfweed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle.
leper: A person affected with leprosy.
lepered: Affected or tainted with leprosy.
leperize: To affect with leprosy.
leperous: Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous. "The leperousdistillment." Shak.
lepid: Pleasant; jocose. [R.]The joyous and lepid consul. Sydney Smith.
lepidine: An organic base, C9H6.N.CH3, metameric with quinaldine, andobtained by the distillation of cinchonine.
lepidodendrid: One of an extinct family of trees allied to the modern clubmosses, and including Lepidodendron and its allies.
lepidodendroid: Allied to, or resembling, Lepidodendron.-- n.
lepidodendron: A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages,having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order,produced by the separation of the leafstalks.
lepidoganoid: Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes,including those that have scales forming a coat of mail. Also usedadjectively.
lepidolite: A species of mica, of a lilac or rose-violet color, containinglithia. It usually occurs in masses consisting of small scales. SeeMica.
lepidomelane: An iron-potash mica, of a raven-black color, usually found ingranitic rocks in small six-sided tables, or as an aggregation ofminute opaque scales. See Mica.
lepidopter: One of the Lepidoptera.
lepidoptera: An order of insects, which includes the butterflies and moths.They have broad wings, covered with minute overlapping scales,usually brightly colored.
lepidopterist: One who studies the Lepidoptera.
lepidosauria: A division of reptiles, including the serpents and lizards; thePlagiotremata.
lepidosiren: An eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having bothgills and lungs. It inhabits the rivers of South America. The name isalso applied to a related African species (Protopterus annectens).The lepidosirens grow to a length of from four to six feet. Calledalso doko.
lepisma: A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongatedflattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by sevenunequal bristles. A common species (Lepisma saccharina) is found inhouses, and often injures books and furniture. Called also shiner,silver witch, silver moth, and furniture bug.
lepismoid: Like or pertaining to the Lepisma.
leporine: Of or pertaining to a hare; like or characteristic of, a hare.
lepra: Leprosy.
lepre: Leprosy.[Obs.] Wyclif.
leprose: Covered with thin, scurfy scales.
leprosity: The state or quality of being leprous or scaly; also, a scale.Bacon.
leprosy: A cutaneous disease which first appears as blebs or as reddish,shining, slightly prominent spots, with spreading edges. These areoften followed by an eruption of dark or yellowish prominent nodules,frequently producing great deformity. In one variety of the disease,anæsthesia of the skin is a prominent symptom. In addition there maybe wasting of the muscles, falling out of the hair and nails, anddistortion of the hands and feet with destruction of the bones andjoints. It is incurable, and is probably contagious.Mycobacteriumleprae, curable in most cases by therapy with a combination ofantibiotics, but cases resistant to therapy are increasing.
leprous: Leprose.-- Lep"rous*ly, adv.-- Lep"rous*ness, n.
lepry: Leprosy. [Obs.] Holland.
leptiform: Having a form somewhat like leptus; -- said of active insectlarvæ having three pairs of legs. See Larva.
leptocardia: The lowest class of Vertebrata, including only the Amphioxus.The heart is represented only by a simple pulsating vessel. The bloodis colorless; the brain, renal organs, and limbs are wanting, and thebackbone is represented only by a simple, unsegmented notochord. SeeAmphioxus. [Written also Leptocardii.]
leptocardian: Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia.-- n.
leptodactyl: A bird or other animal having slender toes. [Written alsolepodactyle.]
leptodactylous: , Having slender toes.
leptology: A minute and tedious discourse on trifling things.
leptomeningitis: Inflammation of the pia mater or of the arachnoid membrane.
leptorhine: Having the nose narrow; -- said esp. of the skull. Opposed toplatyrhine.
leptostraca: An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms.
leptothrix: A genus of bacteria, characterized by having their filamentsvery long, slender, and indistinctly articulated.
leptus: The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimesused as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest.
leptynite: See Granulite.
lere: Learning; lesson; lore. [Obs.] Spenser.
lered: Learned. [Obs.] " Lewed man or lered." Chaucer.
lernaea: A Linnæan genus of parasitic Entomostraca, -- the same as thefamily Lernæidæ.
lernaeacea: A suborder of copepod Crustacea, including a large number ofremarkable forms, mostly parasitic on fishes. The young, however, areactive and swim freely. See Illustration in Appendix.
lernean: One of a family (Lernæidæ) of parasitic Crustacea foundattached to fishes and other marine animals. Some species penetratethe skin and flesh with the elongated head, and feed on the viscera.See Illust. in Appendix.
lerot: A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to thedormouse.
les: A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lesbian: Of or pertaining to the island anciently called Lesbos, nowMitylene, in the Grecian Archipelago.
lesbian love: See Lesbianism.
lesbianism: Unnatural sexual relations between women.
lese: To lose. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lese-majesty: See Leze majesty.
lesion: A hurt; an injury. Specifically:(a) (Civil Law) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain orcontract. Burrill.(b) (Med.) Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or thetexture of organs. Dunglison.
less: Unless. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
lessee: The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate bylease. Blackstone.
lessen: To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; todiminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or apopulation; to lessen speed, rank, fortune.Charity . . . shall lessen his punishment. Calamy.St. Paul chose to magnify his office when ill men conspired to lessenit. Atterbury.
lessener: One who, or that which, lessens.His wife . . . is the lessener of his pain, and the augmenter of hispleasure. J. Rogers (1839).
lesser: Less; smaller; inferior.God made . . . the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 15.
lesses: The leavings or dung of beasts.
lesson: To teach; to instruct. Shak.To rest the weary, and to soothe the sad, Doth lesson happier men,and shame at least the bad. Byron.
lessor: One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease.Blackstone.
lest: To listen. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
lester: A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands.
let: To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose. [Archaic]He was so strong that no man might him let. Chaucer.He who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 2.Thess. ii. 7.Mine ancient wound is hardly whole, And lets me from the saddle.Tennyson.
let-alone: Letting alone. The let-alone principle, doctrine, or policy.(Polit. Econ.) See Laissez faire.
let-off: A device for letting off, releasing, or giving forth, as thewarp from the cylinder of a loom.
let-up: Abatement; also, cessation; as, it blew a gale for three dayswithout any let-up. [Colloq.]
letch: See Leach.
letchy: See Leachy.
lete: To let; to leave. [Obs.]
leten: of Lete. Chaucer.
lethal: One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtainedfrom spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called becauseit occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid.
lethality: The quality of being lethal; mortality.
lethargize: To make lethargic.All bitters are poison, and act by stilling, and depressing, andlethargizing the irritability. Coleridge.
lethargy: To lethargize. [Obs.] Shak.
lethe: Death.[Obs.] Shak.
lethean: Of or pertaining to Lethe; resembling in effect the water ofLethe. Milton. Barrow.
letheed: Caused by Lethe. " Letheed dullness." [Obs.] Shak.
letheon: Sulphuric ether used as an anæsthetic agent. [R.]
letheonize: To subject to the influence of letheon. [R. or Obs.]
lethiferous: Deadly; bringing death or destruction.
lethy: Lethean. [Obs.] Marston.
lette: To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder. [Obs.] Chaucer.
letter: One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire.
letterer: One who makes, inscribes, or engraves, alphabetical letters.
lettergram: See Letter, above.
lettern: See Lecturn.
letterpress: Print; letters and words impressed on paper or other materialby types; -- often used of the reading matter in distinction from theillustrations.Letterpress printing, printing directly from type, in distinctionfrom printing from plates.
letterure: Letters; literature. [Obs.] "To teach him letterure andcourtesy." Chaucer.
letterwood: The beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genusBrosimum (B. Aubletii), found in Guiana; -- so called from blackspots in it which bear some resemblance to hieroglyphics; also calledsnakewood, and leopardwood. It is much used for bows and for walkingsticks.
lettish: Of or pertaining to the Letts.-- n.
lettrure: See Letterure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
letts: An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and OldPrussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia.
lettuce: A composite plant of the genus Lactuca (L. sativa), the leavesof which are used as salad. Plants of this genus yield a milky juice,from which lactucarium is obtained. The commonest wild lettuce of theUnited States is L. Canadensis. Hare's lettuce, Lamb's lettuce. Seeunder Hare, and Lamb.-- Lettuce opium. See Lactucarium.-- Sea lettuce, certain papery green seaweeds of the genus Ulva.
letuary: Electuary. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leuc-: . Same as Leuco-.
leucadendron: A genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, havinghandsome foliage. Leucadendron argenteum is the silverboom of thecolonists.
leucaniline: A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained fromrosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources. It formscolorless salts.
leuchaemia: See Leucocythæmia.-- Leu*chæm"ic, a. [Written also leukæmia, leukæmic.]
leucin: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in thedecomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by theaction of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It isalso found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as thespleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom.Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid.(CH3)2CH.CH2.CH(NH2)-COOH. L-leucine, the natural form, is present inmost proteins.
leucite: A mineral having a glassy fracture, occurring in translucenttrapezohedral crystals. It is a silicate of alumina and potash. It isfound in the volcanic rocks of Italy, especially at Vesuvius.
leucitic: Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks.
leucitoid: The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called asbeing the form of the mineral leucite.
leucocyte: A colorless corpuscle, as one of the white blood corpuscles, orthose found in lymph, marrow of hone, connective tissue, etc.
leucocytogenesis: The formation of leucocytes.
leucoethiopic: White and black; -- said of a white animal of a black species,or the albino of the negro race.
leucoethiops: An albino. [Also written leucoethiops.]
leucoline: A nitrogenous organic base from coal tar, and identical withquinoline. Cf. Quinoline.
leucoma: A white opacity in the cornea of the eye; -- called alsoalbugo.
leucomaine: An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue duringlife; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine orcadaveric poison.
leuconic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid, obtainedas a yellowish white gum by the oxidation of croconic acid.
leucopathy: The state of an albino, or of a white child of black parents.
leucophane: A mineral of a greenish yellow color; it is a silicate ofglucina, lime, and soda with fluorine. Called also leucophanite.
leucophlegmacy: A dropsical habit of body, or the commencement of anasarca;paleness, with viscid juices and cold sweats.
leucophlegmatic: Having a dropsical habit of body, with a white bloated skin.
leucophyll: A colorless substance isomeric with chlorophyll, contained inparts of plants capable of becoming green. Watts.
leucophyllous: Having white or silvery foliage.
leucopyrite: A mineral of a color between white and steel-gray, with ametallic luster, and consisting chiefly of arsenic and iron.
leucorrhoea: A discharge of a white, yellowish, or greenish, viscid mucus,resulting from inflammation or irritation of the membrane lining thegenital organs of the female; the whites. Dunglison.
leucoryx: A large antelope of North Africa (Oryx leucoryx), allied to thegemsbok.
leucoscope: An instrument, devised by Professor Helmholtz, for testing thecolor perception of the eye, or for comparing different lights, as totheir constituent color or their relative whiteness.
leucosoid: Like or pertaining to the Leucosoidea, a tribe of marine crabsincluding the box crab or Calappa.
leucosphere: The inner corona. [R.]
leucoturic: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic substanceof the uric acid group, called leucoturic acid or oxalantin. SeeOxalantin.
leucous: White; -- applied to albinos, from the whiteness of their skinand hair.
leucoxene: A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite,observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration oftitanic iron.
leukaemia: Leucocythæmia.
leukoplast: See Leucoplast.
levana: A goddess who protected newborn infants.
levant: Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. SeeCouchant and levant, under Couchant.
levanter: One who levants, or decamps. [Colloq. Eng.]
levantine: Of or pertaining to the Levant. J. Spencer.
levari facias: A writ of execution at common law.
levation: The act of raising; elevation; upward motion, as that producedby the action of a levator muscle.
levator: A muscle that serves to raise some part, as the lip or theeyelid.
leve: Dear. See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leveche: A dry sirocco of Spain.
levee: To attend the levee or levees of.He levees all the great. Young.
levee en masse: See Levy in mass, under Levy, n.
leveful: Allowable; permissible; lawful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
level: Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection. H. Sweet.Level line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a section which ishorizontal crosswise, and parallel with the rabbet of the keellengthwise. Level surface (Physics), an equipotential surface atright angles at every point to the lines of force.
leveling: The art or operation of using a leveling instrument for findinga horizontal line, for ascertaining the differences of level betweendifferent points of the earth's surface included in a survey, forestablishing grades, etc., as in finding the descent of a river, orlocating a line of railroad. Leveling instrument. See Surveyor'slevel, under Level, n.-- Leveling staff, a graduated rod or staff used in connection witha leveling instrument for measuring differences of level betweenpoints.
levelism: The disposition or endeavor to level all distinctions of rankin society.
levelly: In an even or level manner.
levelness: The state or quality of being level.
leven: Lightning. [Obs.]Wild thunder dint and fiery leven. Chaucer.
lever: More agreeable; more pleasing. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be leverthan. See Had as lief, under Had.
leverage: The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by thelever. Leverage of a couple (Mech.), the perpendicular distancebetween the lines of action of two forces which act in parallel andopposite directions.-- Leverage of a force, the perpendicular distance from the line inwhich a force acts upon a body to a point about which the body may besupposed to turn.
leveret: A hare in the first year of its age.
leverock: A lark. [Scot.]
leverwood: The American hop hornbeam (Ostrya Virginica), a small tree withvery tough wood.
levesel: A leafy shelter; a place covered with foliage. [Obs.]Behind the mill, under a levesel. Chaucer.
levet: A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille. [Obs.]Hudibras.
leviable: Fit to be levied; capable of being assessed and collected; as,sums leviable by course of law. Bacon.
levier: One who levees. Cartwright.
levigable: Capable of being levigated.
levigate: Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated. [Obs.] Sir. T.Elyot.
levigation: The act or operation of levigating.
levin: Lightning. [Obs.] Spenser. Levin brand, a thunderbolt. [Obs.]Spenser.
leviner: A swift hound.
levir: A husband's brother; -- used in reference to leviratemarriages.
leviration: Levirate marriage or marriages. Kitto.
levirostres: A group of birds, including the hornbills, kingfishers, andrelated forms.
levitate: To rise, or tend to rise, as if lighter than the surroundingmedium; to become buoyant; -- opposed to gravitate. Sir. J. Herschel.
levite: One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp.,one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe) andemployed in various duties connected with the tabernacle first, andafterward the temple, such as the care of the building, bringing ofwood and other necessaries for the sacrifices, the music of theservices, etc.
levitically: After the manner of the Levites; in accordance with thelevitical law.
leviticus: The third canonical book of the Old Testament, containing thelaws and regulations relating to the priests and Levites among theHebrews, or the body of the ceremonial law.
levo-: A prefix from L. laevus, meaning:(a) Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory.(b) (Chem. & Opt.) Turning the plane of polarized light to the left;as, levotartaric acid; levoracemic acid; levogyratory crystals, etc.[Written also lævo-.]
levogyrate: Turning or twisting the plane of polarization towards the left,as levulose, levotartaric acid, etc. [Written also lævogyrate.]
levorotation: Rotation in the direction of an outgoing right-handed screw;counter-clockwise rotation; -- applied chiefly to the turning of theplane of polarization of light.
levorotatory: Turning or rotating the plane of polarization towards the left;levogyrate, as levulose, left handed quartz crystals, etc. [Writtenalso lævorotatory.]
levulin: A substance resembling dextrin, obtained from the bulbs of thedahlia, the artichoke, and other sources, as a colorless, spongy,amorphous material. It is so called because by decomposition ityields levulose. [Written also lævulin.]
levulinic: Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid (called also acetyl-propionic acid), C5H8O3, obtained by the action of dilute acids onvarious sugars (as levulose). [Written also lævulinic.]
levulosan: An unfermentable carbohydrate obtained by gently heatinglevulose.
levulose: A sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized,occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called alsofruit sugar. It is called levulose, because it rotates the plane ofpolarization to the left. [Written also lævulose.]C6H12O6.
levy: A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginiato the Spanish real of one eight of a dollar (or 12
lew: Lukewarm; tepid. [Obs.] Wyclif.
lewdster: A lewd person. [Obs.] Shak.
lex: Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terræ, thelaw of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci,the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants.
lexical: Of or pertaining to a lexicon, to lexicography, or words;according or conforming to a lexicon.-- Lex"ic*al*ly, adv.
lexicographer: The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.Every other author may aspire to praise; the lexicographer can onlyhope to escape reproach; and even this negative recompense has beenyet granted to very few. Johnson.
lexicographist: A lexicographer. [R.] Southey.
lexicography: The art, process, or occupation of making a lexicon ordictionary; the principles which are applied in making dictionaries.
lexicologist: One versed in lexicology.
lexicology: The science of the derivation and signification of words; thatbranch of learning which treats of the signification and applicationof words.
lexicon: A vocabulary, or book containing an alphabetical arrangement ofthe words in a language or of a considerable number of them, with thedefinition of each; a dictionary; especially, a dictionary of theGreek, Hebrew, or Latin language.
lexiconist: A writer of a lexicon. [R.]
lexigraphic: Of or pertaining to lexigraphy.
lexigraphy: The art or practice of defining words; definition of words.
lexiphanic: Using, or interlarded with, pretentious words; bombastic; as, alexiphanic writer or speaker; lexiphanic writing.
lexiphanicism: The use of pretentious words, language, or style.
lexipharmic: See Alexipharmic.
ley: , & i. To lay; to wager. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leyser: Leisure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
leze majesty: Any crime committed against the sovereign power.
lherzolite: An igneous rock consisting largely of chrysolite, with pyroxeneand picotite (a variety of spinel containing chromium).
liability: the sum of one's pecuniary obligations; -- opposed to assets.Limited liability. See Limited company, under Limited.
liableness: Quality of being liable; liability.
liage: Union by league; alliance. [Obs.]
liaison: A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; especially, an illicitintimacy between a man and a woman.
liar: A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies.
liard: Gray. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lias: The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; aname given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestonesunderlying the Oölite. See the Chart of Geology.
liassic: Of the age of the Lias; pertaining to the Lias Formation.-- n.
lib: To castrate. [Obs.]
libament: Libation. [Obs.] Holland.
libant: Sipping; touching lightly. [R.] Landor.
libation: The act of pouring a liquid or liquor, usually wine, either onthe ground or on a victim in sacrifice, in honor of some deity; also,the wine or liquid thus poured out. Dryden.A heathen sacrifice or libation to the earth. Bacon.
libatory: Pertaining to libation.
libbard: A leopard. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Keats.
libel: A malicious publication expressed either in print or inwriting, or by pictures, effigies, or other signs, tending to exposeanother to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Such publication isindictable at common law.
libelant: One who libels; one who institutes a suit in an ecclesiasticalor admiralty court. [Written also libellant.] Cranch.
libeler: One who libels. [Written also libeller.] " Libelers of others."Buckkminster.
libelist: A libeler.
libellulid: A dragon fly.
libelluloid: Like or pertaining to the dragon fi
libelous: Containing or involving a libel; defamatory; containing thatwhich exposes some person to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule;as, a libelous pamphlet. [Written also libellous.] -- Li"bel*ous*ly,adv.
liber: The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usuallycontains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is,therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, asthat of hemp, etc. Liber cells, elongated woody cells found in theliber.
liberal: One who favors greater freedom in political or religiousmatters; an opponent of the established systems; a reformer; inEnglish politics, a member of the Liberal party, so called. Cf. Whig.
liberalism: Liberal principles; the principles and methods of the liberalsin politics or religion; specifically, the principles of the Liberalparty.
liberalist: A liberal.
liberalistic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, liberalism; as,liberalistic opinions.
liberalization: The act of liberalizing.
liberalize: To make liberal; to free from narrow views or prejudices.To open and to liberalize the mind. Burke.
liberalizer: One who, or that which, liberalizes. Emerson.
liberally: In a liberal manner.
liberate: To release from restraint or bondage; to set at liberty; tofree; to manumit; to disengage; as, to liberate a slave or prisoner;to liberate the mind from prejudice; to liberate gases.
liberation: The act of liberating or the state of being liberated.This mode of analysis requires perfect liberation from all prejudgedsystem. Pownall.
liberator: One who, or that which, liberates; a deliverer.
liberatory: Tending, or serving, to liberate. [R.]
libertarian: Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, asopposed to the doctrine of necessity.
libertarianism: Libertarian principles or doctrines.
libertinage: Libertinism; license. [R.]
libertine: A manumitted slave; a freedman; also, the son of a freedman.
liberty: A curve or arch in a bit to afford room for the tongue of thehorse.
libethenite: A mineral of an olive-green color, commonly in orthorhombiccrystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of copper.
libidinist: One given to lewdness.
libidinosity: The state or quality of being libidinous; libidinousness.Skelton.
libidinous: Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual;lascivious.-- Li*bid"i*nous*ly, adv.-- Li*bid"i*nous*ness, n.
libral: Of a pound weight. [Obs.] Johnson.
librarianship: The office of a librarian.
librate: To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium;hence, to be poised.Their parts all liberate on too nice a beam. Clifton.
libration: A real or apparent libratory motion, like that of a balancebefore coming to rest. Libration of the moon, any one of those smallperiodical changes in the position of the moon's surface relativelyto the earth, in consequence of which narrow portions at oppositelimbs become visible or invisible alternately. It receives differentnames according to the manner in which it takes place; as
libratory: Balancing; moving like a balance, as it tends to an equipoiseor level.
librettist: One who makes a libretto.
libriform: Having the form of liber, or resembling liber. Libriform cells,peculiar wood cells which are very slender and relatively thick-walled, and occasionally are furnished with bordered pits. Goodale.
libyan: Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part ofAfrica between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole.
lice: pl. of Louse.
licensable: That can be licensed.
license: To permit or authorize by license; to give license to; as, tolicense a man to preach. Milton. Shak.
licensed: Having a license; permitted or authorized by license; as, alicensed victualer; a licensed traffic. Licensed victualer, one whohas a license to keep an in or eating house; esp., a victualer whohas a license to sell intoxicating liquors.
licensee: The person to whom a license is given.
licenser: One who gives a license; as, a licenser of the press.
licensure: A licensing. [R.]
licentiate: To give a license to. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
lich: Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
lichen: One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technicallycalled Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually ofscaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulousand variously branched. They derive their nourishment from the air,and generate by means of spores. The species are very widelydistributed, and form irregular spots or patches, usually of agreenish or yellowish color, upon rocks, trees, and various bodies,to which they adhere with great tenacity. They are often improperlycalled rock moss or tree moss.
lichened: Belonging to, or covered with, lichens. Tennyson.
lichenic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, lichens. Lichenic acid.(a) An organic acid, C14H24O3 obtained from Iceland moss. (b) An oldname of fumaric acid.
licheniform: Having the form of a lichen.
lichenin: A substance isomeric with starch, extracted from severalspecies of moss and lichen, esp. from Iceland moss.
lichenographist: One who describes lichens; one versed in lichenography.
lichenography: A description of lichens; the science which illustrates thenatural history of lichens.
lichenologist: One versed in lichenology.
lichenology: The science which treats of lichens.
lichenous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, lichens; abounding inlichens; covered with lichens. G. Eliot.
lichi: See Litchi.
lichwale: The gromwell.
lichwort: An herb, the wall pellitory. See Pellitory.
licit: Lawful. "Licit establishments." Carlyle.-- Lic"it*ly, adv.-- Lic"it*ness, n.
licitation: The act of offering for sale to the highest bidder. [R.]
lick: To strike with repeated blows for punishment; to flog; to whipor conquer, as in a pugilistic encounter. [Colloq. or Low] Carlyle.Thackeray.
lick-spigot: A tapster. [Obs.]
lick-spittle: An abject flatterer or parasite. Theodore Hook.
licker: One who, or that which, licks. Licker in (Carding Machine), thedrum, or cylinder, by which the lap is taken from the feed rollers.
lickerous: Lickerish; eager; lustful. [Obs.] -- Lick"er*ous*ness, n.[Obs.] Chaucer.
lickpenny: A devourer or absorber of money. "Law is a lickpenny." Sir W.Scott.
licorice: A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of whichabounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.
licorous: See Lickerish.-- Lic"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.] Herbert.
licour: Liquor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lictor: An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of hisoffice. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when theyappeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to bepaid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals.Lictors and rods, the ensigns of their power. Milton.
lidded: Covered with a lid. Keats.
lidge: Same Ledge.[Obs.] Spenser.
lidless: Having no lid, or not covered with the lids, as the eyes;hence, sleepless; watchful.A lidless watcher of the public weal. Tennyson.
lie: See Lye.
lied: A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, andthe Italian canzone, all three being national.The German Lied is perhaps the most faithful reflection of thenational sentiment. Grove.
liederkranz: Lit., wreath of songs; -- used as the title of a group ofsongs, and esp. as the common name for German vocal clubs of men.
liedertafel: A popular name for any society or club which meets for thepractice of male part songs.
lief: Same as Lif.
liefsome: Pleasing; delightful. [Obs.]
liegance: Same as Ligeance.
liege: Full; perfect; complete; pure. Burrill. Liege homage (FeudalCustom), that homage of one sovereign or prince to another whichacknowledged an obligation of fealty and services.-- Liege poustie Etym
liegeman: Same as Liege, n., 2. Chaucer. Spenser.
lieger: A resident ambassador. [Obs.] See Leger. Denham.
liegiancy: See Ligeance.
lien: of Lie. See lain. Ps. lxviii. 13.
lienal: Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic.
lienculus: One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood ofthe spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen.
lieno-intestinal: Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno-intestinal vein of the frog.
lienteric: Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery.-- n. (Med.)
lientery: A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectlydigested, or with but little change. Dunglison.
lier: One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment.There were liers in a ambush against him. Josh. viii. 14.
lierne rib: In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from theimpost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss orintersection of the principal ribs to another.
lieu: Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, thatis, instead of.The plan of extortion had been adopted in lieu of the scheme ofconfiscation. Burke.
lieutenant general: . An army officer in rank next below a general and next above amajor general.
lieutenantry: See Lieutenancy. [Obs.]
lieutenantship: Same as Lieutenancy, 1.
lieve: Same as Lief.
lif: The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are boundtogether, from which various kinds of cordage are made.
life: The potential principle, or force, by which the organs ofanimals and plants are started and continued in the performance oftheir several and coöperative functions; the vital force, whetherregarded as physical or spiritual.
life-giving: Giving life or spirit; having power to give life; inspiriting;invigorating.
life-preserver: An apparatus, made in very various forms, and of variousmaterials, for saving one from drowning by buoying up the body whilein the water.-- Life"-pre*serv`ing, a.
life-saving: That saves life, or is suited to save life, esp. from drowning;as, the life-saving service; a life-saving station.
life-size: Of full size; of the natural size.
life-weary: Weary of living. Shak.
lifeboat: A strong, buoyant boat especially designed for saving the livesof shipwrecked people.
lifeful: Full of vitality. Spenser.
lifehold: Land held by a life estate.
lifeless: Destitute of life, or deprived of life; not containing, orinhabited by, living beings or vegetation; dead, or apparently dead;spiritless; powerless; dull; as, a lifeless carcass; lifeless matter;a lifeless desert; a lifeless wine; a lifeless story.-- Life"less*ly, adv.-- Life"less*ness, n.
lifelike: Like a living being; resembling life; giving an accuraterepresentation; as, a lifelike portrait.-- Life"like`ness, n. Poe.
lifelong: Lasting or continuing through life. Tennyson.
lifely: In a lifelike manner. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lifemate: Companion for life. Hawthorne.
lifen: To enliven. [Obs.] Marston.
lifesome: Animated; sprightly. [Poetic] Coleridge.-- Life"some*ness, n.
lifespring: Spring or source of life.
lifestring: A nerve, or string, that is imagined to be essential to life.Daniel.
lifetime: The time that life continues.
liflode: Livelihood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lift: The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament. [Obs. or Scot.]
liftable: Such as can be lifted.
lifter: A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, acontrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when thecope is lifted.
lifting: Used in, or for, or by, lifting. Lifting bridge, a lift bridge.-- Lifting jack. See 2d Jack, 5.-- Lifting machine. See Health lift, under Health.-- Lifting pump. (Mach.) (a) A kind of pump having a bucket, orvalved piston, instead of a solid piston, for drawing water andlifting it to a high level. (b) A pump which lifts the water only tothe top of the pump, or delivers it through a spout; a lift pump.-- Lifting rod, a vertical rod lifted by a rock shaft, and impartingmotion to a puppet valve; -- used in the engines of river steamboats.-- Lifting sail (Naut.), one which tends to lift a vessel's bow outof water, as jibs and square foresails.
lig: To recline; to lie still. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. Spenser.
ligament: Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as,a strong ligamentous membrane.
ligan: Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that theymay be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. [Written also lagan.]Blackstone.
ligate: To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage.
ligator: An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening aligature.
ligature: A curve or line connecting notes; a slur.
lige: To lie; to tell lies. [Obs.]
ligeance: The connection between sovereign and subject by which they weremutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice,the latter to faithful service; allegiance. [Written also ligeancyand liegance.] Chaucer.
ligement: See Ledgment
ligge: To lie or recline. [Obs.] Chaucer.
light: The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that partof a picture which represents those objects upon which the light issupposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or otherscene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro.
light signals: A system of signaling in which balls of red and green fire arefired from a pistol, the arrangement in groups denoting numbershaving a code significance.
light year: The distance over which light can travel in a year's time; --used as a unit in expressing stellar distances. It is more than63,000 times as great as the distance from the earth to the sun.
light-armed: Armed with light weapons or accouterments.
light-boat: Light-ship.
light-fingered: Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering;addicted to petty thefts. Fuller.
light-handed: Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.
light-hearted: Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry.-- Light"-heart`ed*ly, adv.-- Light"-heart"ed*ness, n.
light-heeled: Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed.
light-horseman: A West Indian fish of the genus Ephippus, remarkable for itshigh dorsal fin and brilliant colors.
light-legged: Nimble; swift of foot. Sir P. Sidney.
light-minded: Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate.-- Light"-mind`ed*ness, n.
light-ship: A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and mooredoff a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners.
light-winged: Having light and active wings; volatile; fleeting. Shak.
lightable: Such as can be lighted.
lighte: of Light, to alight. Chaucer.
lighten: To descend; to light.O Lord, let thy mercy lighten upon us. Book of Common Prayer [Eng.Ed.]
lighter: One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps.
lighterman: A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter.
lightful: Full of light; bright. [R.] "Lightful presence." Marston.
lighthouse: A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erectedat the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, toserve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos.
lighting: A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals.
lightless: Destitute of light; dark. Shak.
lightman: A man who carries or takes care of a light. T. Brown.
lightness: The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy;buoyancy; levity; fickleness; delicacy; grace.
lightning: Lightening. [R.]
lightroom: A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel islighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows.
lights: The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely appliedto the lungs of a human being.
lightstruck: Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- saidof plates or films.
lightweight: Light in weight, as a coin; specif., applied to a man or animalwho is a lightweight.
lightwood: Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the SouthernUnited States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling afire quickly or making a blaze.
lighty: Illuminated. [Obs.] Wyclif.
ligneous: Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, orresembling, wood; woody.It should be tried with shoots of vines and roots of red roses; forit may be they, being of a moreligneous nature, will incorporate withthe tree itself. Bacon.Ligneous marble, wood coated or prepared so as to resemble marble.
ligniferous: Yielding or producing wood.
lignification: A change in the character of a cell wall, by which it becomesharder. It is supposed to be due to an incrustation of lignin.
ligniform: Like wood.
lignify: To convert into wood or into a ligneous substance.
lignin: A substance characterizing wood cells and differing fromcellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.
ligniperdous: Wood-destroying; -- said of certain insects.
lignireose: See Lignin.
lignite: Mineral coal retaining the texture of the wood from which itwas formed, and burning with an empyreumatic odor. It is of morerecent origin than the anthracite and bituminous coal of the propercoal series. Called also brown coal, wood coal.
lignitic: Containing lignite; resembling, or of the nature of, lignite;as, lignitic clay. Lignitic group. See Laramie group.
lignitiferous: Producing or containing lignite; lignitic.
lignoceric: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the formic acidseries, found in the tar, wax, or paraffine obtained by distillingcertain kinds of wood, as the beech.
lignone: See Lignin.
lignose: See Lignin.
lignum rhodium: The fragrant wood of several shrubs and trees, especially ofspecies of Rhodorhiza from the Canary Islands, and of the West IndianAmyris balsamifera.
lignum-vitae: A tree (Guaiacum officinale) found in the warm latitudes ofAmerica, from which the guaiacum of medicine is procured. Its wood isvery hard and heavy, and is used for various mechanical purposes, asfor the wheels of ships' blocks, cogs, bearings, and the like. SeeGuaiacum.
ligroin: A trade name applied somewhat indefinitely to some of thevolatile products obtained in refining crude petroleum. It is acomplex and variable mixture of several hydrocarbons, generally boilsbelow 170º Fahr., and is more inflammable than safe kerosene. It isused as a solvent, as a carburetant for air gas, and for illuminationin special lamps.
ligsam: Same as Ligan. Brande & C.
ligula: See Ligule.
ligule: A band of white matter in the wall of fourth ventricle of thebrain.
liguliflorous: Bearing only ligulate flowers; -- said of a large suborder ofcomposite plants, such as the dandelion, hawkweed, etc.
ligure: A kind of precious stone.The third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. Ex. xxviii. 19.
ligustrin: A bitter principle found in the bark of the privet (Ligustrumvulgare), and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a warm,bitter taste; -- called also ligustron.
likable: Such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likableperson. Thackeray.
like-minded: Having a like disposition or purpose; of the same mind.Tillotson.
likeable: See Likable.
likehood: Likelihood. [Obs.] South.
likely: In all probability; probably.While man was innocent he was likely ignorant of nothing thatimported him to know. Glanvill.
likeness: See Lickerish, Lickerishness. Chaucer.
likewise: In like manner; also; moreover; too. See Also.Go, and do thou likewise. Luke x. 37.For he seeth that wise men die; likewise the fool and the brutishperson perish. Ps. xlix. 10.
likin: A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations uponimports or articles in transit.
liking: Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, tolook. [Obs.] Chaucer.Why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which areof your sort Dan. i. 10.
lilac: A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives ofEurope and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica,the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance andbeauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British coloniesvarious other shrubs have this name.
lilacin: See Syringin.
lilial: Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants.
lilied: Covered with, or having many, lilies.By sandy Ladon's lilied banks. Milton.
lill: To loll. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser.
lilliputian: A person or thing of very small size.
lilly-pilly: An Australian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Smithii), having smoothovate leaves, and panicles of small white flowers. The wood is hardand fine-grained.
lilt: To utter with spirit, animation, or gayety; to sing with spiritand liveliness.A classic lecture, rich in sentiment, With scraps of thundrous epiclilted out By violet-hooded doctors. Tennyson.
lily: A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbousplants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens,and a superior three-celled ovary.
lily-handed: Having white, delicate hands.
lily-livered: White-livered; cowardly.
lilywort: Any plant of the Lily family or order. Lindley.
lim: A limb. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lim naea: A genus of fresh-water air-breathing mollusks, abundant inponds and streams; -- called also pond snail. [Written also Lymnæa.]
lima: The capital city of Peru, in South America. Lima bean. (Bot.)(a) A variety of climbing or pole bean (Phaseolus lunatus), which hasvery large flattish seeds. (b) The seed of this plant, much used forfood.-- Lima wood (Bot.), the beautiful dark wood of the South Americantree Cæsalpinia echinata.
limaceous: Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs.
limacina: A genus of small spiral pteropods, common in the Arctic andAntarctic seas. It contributes to the food of the right whales.
limacon: A curve of the fourth degree, invented by Pascal. Its polarequation is r = a cos + b.
limaille: Filings of metal. [Obs.] "An ounce . . . of silver lymaille."Chaucer.
liman: The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.
limation: The act of filing or polishing.
limax: A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common gardenslugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is onthe right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome ingardens. See Slug.
limb: A border or edge, in certain special uses.(a) (Bot.) The border or upper spreading part of a monopetalouscorolla, or of a petal, or sepal; blade.(b) (Astron.) The border or edge of the disk of a heavenly body,especially of the sun and moon.(c) The graduated margin of an arc or circle, in an instrument formeasuring angles.
limbat: A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing fromthe northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day orlater.
limbate: Bordered, as when one color is surrounded by an edging ofanother.
limbec: An alembic; a still. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak.
limbed: Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed;short-limbed.Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms, Limbed and full grown.Milton.
limber: The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage. [Prov. Eng.]
limberness: The quality or state of being limber; flexibleness. Boyle.
limbless: Destitute of limbs.
limbmeal: Piecemeal. [Obs.] "To tear her limbmeal." Shak.
limbous: With slightly overlapping borders; -- said of a suture.
lime: A thong by which a dog is led; a leash. Halliwell.
lime twig: . See under 4th Lime.
lime-twigged: Beset with snares; insnared, as with birdlime. L. Addison.
limehound: A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer. Spenser.
limekiln: A kiln or furnace in which limestone or shells are burned andreduced to lime.
limelight: That part of the stage upon which the limelight as cast,usually where the most important action is progressing or where theleading player or players are placed and upon which the attention ofthe spectators is therefore concentrated. Hence, consspicuousposition before the public; as, politicians who are never happyexcept in the limelight.
limenean: Of or pertaining to Lima, or to the inhabitants of Lima, inPeru.-- n.
limer: A limehound; a limmer. Chaucer.
limerick: A nonsense poem of five anapestic lines, of which  lines 1, 2,and 5 are of there feet, and rime, and lines 3 and 4 are of two feet,and rime; as --
limestone: A rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate or carbonate oflime. It sometimes contains also magnesium carbonate, and is thencalled magnesian or dolomitic limestone. Crystalline limestone iscalled marble.
limewater: Water impregnated with lime; esp., an artificial solution oflime for medicinal purposes.
limicolae: A group of shore birds, embracing the plovers, sandpipers,snipe, curlew, etc. ; the Grallæ.
limicoline: Shore-inhabiting; of or pertaining to the Limicolæ.
liminess: The state or quality of being limy.
limit: A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic adifferentia.
limitable: Capable of being limited.
limitaneous: Of or pertaining to a limit. [Obs.]
limitarian: Tending to limit.
limitate: Bounded by a distinct line.
limited: Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as,our views of nature are very limited. Limited company, a company inwhich the liability of each shareholder is limited by the number ofshares he has taken, so that he can not be called on to contributebeyond the amount of his shares. [Eng.] Mozley & W.
limitedly: With limitation.
limitedness: The quality of being limited.
limitive: Involving a limit; as, a limitive law, one designed to limitexisting powers. [R.]
limitless: Having no limits; unbounded; boundless. Davies (Wit's Pilgr.).
limitour: See Limiter, 2.
limmer: Limber. [Obs.] Holland.
limner: A painter; an artist; esp.:(a) One who paints portraits.(b) One who illuminates books. [Archaic]
limniad: See Limoniad.
limning: The act, process, or art of one who limns; the picture ordecoration so produced.Adorned with illumination which we now call limning. Wood.
limoges: A city of Southern France. Limoges enamel, a kind of enamelware in which the enamel is applied to the whole surface of a metalplaque, vase, or the like, and painted in enamel colors. The art wasbrought to a high degree of perfection in Limoges in the 16thcentury.-- Limoges ware. (a) Articles decorated with Limoges enamel. (b)Articles of porcelain, etc., manufactured at Limoges.
limoniad: A nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad.
limonin: A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange andlemon seeds.
limonite: Hydrous sesquixoide of iron, an important ore of iron,occurring in stalactitic, mammillary, or earthy forms, of a darkbrown color, yellowish brown powder. It includes bog iron. Alsocalled brown hematite.
limosis: A ravenous appetite caused by disease; excessive and morbidhunger.
limous: Muddy; slimy; thick. Sir T. Browne.
limousine: An automobile body with seats and permanent top like a coupé,and with the top projecting over the driver and a projecting front;also, an automobile with such a body.
limp: To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively. Shak.
limper: One who limps.
limpid: Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpidstream.Springs which were clear, fresh, and limpid. Woodward.
limpidity: The quality or state of being limpid.
limpidness: Quality of being limpid; limpidity.
limpin: A limpet. [Obs.] Holland.
limpingly: In a limping manner.
limpitude: Limpidity. [Obs.]
limpkin: Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus,intermediate between the cranes and rails. The limpkins areremarkable for the great length of the toes. One species (A.giganteus) inhabits Florida and the West Indies; the other (A.scolopaceus) is found in South America. Called also courlan, andcrying bird.
limpness: The quality or state of being limp.
limu: The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used asfood, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc.
limule: A limulus.
limuloidea: An order of Merostomata, including among living animals thegenus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of theCarboniferous period. Called also Xiphosura.
limulus: The only existing genus of Merostomata. It includes only a fewspecies from the East Indies, and one (Limulus polyphemus) from theAtlantic coast of North America. Called also Molucca crab, king crab,horseshoe crab, and horsefoot.
lin: To yield; to stop; to cease. [Obs. or Scot.] Marsion.
linage: See Lineage. [Obs.] Holland.
linament: Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds orulcers.
linarite: A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright bluemonoclinic crystals.
linch: A ledge; a right-angled projection.
linchi: An esculent swallow.
linchpin: A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding offthe axletree.
lincoln green: . A color of cloth formerly made in Lincoln, England; the clothitself.
lind: The linden. See Linden. Chaucer.
lindia: A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence ofciliated disks. By some zoölogists it is thought to be like theancestral form of the Arthropoda.
lindiform: Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insectlarvæ. [See Illust. under Larva.]
line: A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet,according to the measure.In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. Broome.
lineage: Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race;descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from meare hidden yet. Spenser.
lineality: The quality of being linea
lineally: In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended fromthe Conqueror.
lineament: One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks,of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; -- usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke."Lineaments in the character." Swift.Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton.
linear: Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except atthe extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), anequation which is of the first degree, when the expression which isequated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variableand its differential coefficients.-- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree betweentwo variables; -- so called because every such equation may beconsidered as representing a right line.-- Linear measure, the measurement of length.-- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to lengthonly
linear-shaped: Of a linear shape.
linearensate: Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.
linearly: In a linear manner; with lines.
lineary: Linear. Holland.
lineation: Delineation; a line or lines.
lineature: Anything having outline. [R.] Holland.
linen: Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.
linener: A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.]
lineolate: Marked with little lines.
liner: A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them,fill a space, etc., ; a shim.
ling: Heather (Calluna vulgaris). Ling honey, a sort of wild honey,made from the flowers of the heather. Holland.
ling-bird: The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling.
lingence: A linctus. [Obs.] Fuller.
linger: To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow orreluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be insuspense; to hesitate.Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind. Gray.Perhaps thou linger'st, in deep thoughts detained. Milton.
lingerer: One who lingers. Guardian.
lingerie: Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; theclothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women.
lingeringly: With delay; slowly; tediously.
linget: An ingot. [Written also lingot.]
lingism: A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics;-- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede. See Kinesiatrics.
lingle: See Lingel.
lingo: Language; speech; dialect. [Slang]
lingoa wood: . Amboyna wood.
lingot: A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget.
lingua franca: The commercial language of the Levant, -- a mixture of thelanguage of the people of the region and foreign traders.
linguacious: Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious. [Obs.]
linguadental: Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, orrather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual,as the letters d and t.
lingual: Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of thetongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter. Lingualribbon. (Zoöl.) See Odontophore.
linguality: The quality of being lingual.
linguatulida: Same as Linguatulina.
linguatulina: An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids. They havetwo pairs of retractile hooks, near the mouth. Called alsoPentastomida.
linguidental: Linguadental.
linguiform: Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped.
linguist: Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or tothe affinities of languages.
linguistically: In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist.Tylor.
linguistics: The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, andapplication of words; glossology.
lingula: A tonguelike process or part.
lingulate: Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.
linigerous: Bearing flax; producing linen.
liniment: A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinnerthan an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as asedative or a stimulant.
link: A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. Shak.
link motion: A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods,giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar,called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can bereversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally inlocomotives and marine engines.
linkage: Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union ofatoms or radicals in the molecule.
links: A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfinggreen.
linnaea borealis: The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates.
linnaeite: A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster,occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphideof cobalt containing some nickel or copper.
linne: Flax. See Linen. [Obs.]
linnet: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the generaLinota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species(L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brownabove, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its headare grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, redlinnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher,linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet(Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll,and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch.
linoleate: A salt of linoleic acid.
linoleic: Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil;specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil,found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp,and certain nuts.
linoxin: A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product oflinoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.]
linsang: Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting theEast Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P.gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang(Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots.
linseed: The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Writtenalso lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remainswhen oil is expressed.-- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder.-- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed.
linsey: Linsey-woolsey.
linsey-woolsey: Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitableparts; mean. Johnson.
linstock: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold alighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.]
lintel: A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying thesuperincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswisefracture.
lintseed: See Linseed.
linum: A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linumusitatissimum).
lion: A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found inSouthern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varietiesoccurring in the different countries. The adult male, in mostvarieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to hisapparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. Thelength, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail.The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker,and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, calledthe maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.
lion-heart: A very brave person.
lion-hearted: Very brave; brave and magnanimous. Sir W. Scott.
lionced: Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions'heads; -- said of a cross. [Written also leonced.]
lioncel: A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coatof arms.
lionel: The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.
lioness: A female lion.
lionet: A young or small lion.
lionhood: State of being a lion. Carlyle.
lionism: An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating orregarding as a lion.
lionlike: Like a lion; brave as a lion.
lionly: Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton.
lionship: The state of being a lion.
lip: One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit,a pod auger. See Auger.-- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only.-- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only.-- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale.-- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speakingby watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice.Carpenter.-- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips.-- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotionwithout the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments.-- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported byexperience.-- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson.-- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt.Shak.-- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protrudingthe lip.
lipaemia: A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.
lipans: A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northernpart of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closelyrelated to the Apaches.
liparian: Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycidmoths, as the tussock moths.
liparite: A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite.
lipic: Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly usedspecifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidationof oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc.
lipinic: Lipic.
lipless: , Having no lips.
liplet: A little lip.
lipocephala: Same as Lamellibranchia.
lipochrin: A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in thesmall round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells. It is bestobtained from the eyes of frogs.
lipogram: A writing composed of words not having a certain letters; -- asin the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no Bin the second, and so on.
lipogrammatic: Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certainletter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings.
lipogrammatist: One who makes a lipogram.
lipoma: A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.-- Li*pom"a*tous, a.
lipothymic: Tending to swoon; fainting. [Written also leipothymic.]
lipothymous: Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting.
lipothymy: A fainting; a swoon. Jer. Taylor.
lipped: Labiate.
lippitude: Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyes; blearedness.
lipse: To lisp. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lipyl: A hypothetical radical of glycerin. [Obs.] Berzelius.
liquable: Capable of being melted.
liquate: To melt; to become liquid. [Obs.] Woodward.
liquation: The process of separating, by heat, an easily fusible metalfrom one less fusible; eliquation.
liquefacient: An agent, as mercury, iodine, etc., which promotes theliquefying processes of the system, and increases the secretions.
liquefaction: The act, process, or method, of reducing a gas or vapor to aliquid by cold or pressure; as, the liquefaction of oxygen orhydrogen.
liquefiable: Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.
liquefier: That which liquefies.
liquefy: To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; todissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.
liquescency: The quality or state of being liquescent. Johnson.
liquescent: Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt to melt; melting.
liqueur: An aromatic alcoholic cordial.
liquid: Being in such a state that the component parts move amongthemselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as theparticles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aëriform; as,liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a stateof vapor.
liquid air: A transparent limpid liquid, slightly blue in color, consistingof a mixture of liquefied oxygen and nitrogen. It is prepared bysubjecting air to great pressure and then cooling it by its ownexpansion to a temperature below the boiling point of itsconstituents  (N -194º C; O -183º C.).
liquidambar: A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star-shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit. Liquidambar styraciflua isthe North American sweet qum, and L. Orientalis is found in AsiaMinor.
liquidamber: See Liquidambar.
liquidate: To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amountof (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more thanone person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness);to make the amount of (an indebtedness); clear and certain.A debt or demand is liquidated whenever the amount due is agreed onby the parties, or fixed by the operation of law. 15 Ga. Rep. 821.If our epistolary accounts were fairly liquidated, I believe youwould be brought in considerable debtor. Chesterfield.
liquidation: The act or process of liquidating; the state of beingliquidated. To go into liquidation (Law), to turn over to a trusteeone's assets and accounts, in order that the several amounts of one'sindebtedness be authoritatively ascertained, and that the assets maybe applied toward their discharge.
liquidity: The state or quality of being liquid.
liquidize: To render liquid.
liquidly: In a liquid manner; flowingly.
liquidness: The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency.
liquor: A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguishedfrom tincture and aqua.
liquorice: See Licorice.
liquorish: See Lickerish. [Obs.] Shak.
liquorous: Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish. [Obs.] Marston.
lira: An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.
lirella: A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit ofcertain lichens.
lirelliform: Like a lirella. [Written also lirellæform.]
liriodendron: A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America,having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tuliptree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood. Liriodendron tulipifera isthe only extant species, but there were several others in theCretaceous epoch.
liripipe: See Liripoop.
liroconite: A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidalcrystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color.
lisbon: A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in theprovince of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon,in Portugal.
lisle: A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisleglove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread.-- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle.-- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally producedat Lisle.
lisne: A cavity or hollow.[Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
lisp: The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1.I overheard her answer, with a very pretty lisp, "O! Strephon, youare a dangerous creature." Tatler.
lisper: One who lisps.
lispingly: With a lisp; in a lisping manner.
liss: Release; remission; ease; relief. [Obs.] "Of penance had alisse." Chaucer.
lissencephala: A general name for all those placental mammals that have abrain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora,etc.
list: A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground,or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or fieldinclosed for a race or combat. Chaucer.In measured lists to toss the weighty lance. Pope.To enter the lists, to accept a challenge, or engage in contest.
listel: Same as List, n., 6.
listen: To attend to. [Obs.] Shak.
listener: One who listens; a hearkener.
lister: One who makes a list or roll.
listerian: Of or pertaining to listerism.
listerism: The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance ofoperations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from JosephLister, an English surgeon.
listerize: To make antiseptic.
listful: Attentive [Obs.] Spenser.
listing: The sapwood cut from the edge of a board.
listless: Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless;spiritless. " A listless unconcern." Thomson.Benumbed with cold, and listless of their gain. Dryden.I was listless, and desponding. Swift.
lit: , a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light.
litany: A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of variouschurches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the formerleading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It isusually of a penitential character.Supplications . . . for the appeasing of God's wrath were of theGreek church termed litanies, and rogations of the Latin. Hooker.
litarge: Litharge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
litchi: The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It isnutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromaticpulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exportedthe pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form. [Written alsolichi, and lychee.] -- lite. See -lith.
lite: Little. [Obs.] Chaucer.
literacy: State of being literate.
literal: Literal meaning. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
literalism: The tendency or disposition to represent objects faithfully,without abstraction, conventionalities, or idealization.
literalist: One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreteraccording to the letter.
literality: The state or quality of being literal. Sir T. Browne.
literalization: The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning.
literalize: To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according tothe strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, toliteralize Scripture.
literalizer: A literalist.
literalness: The quality or state of being literal; literal import.
literate: Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned;lettered.The literate now chose their emperor, as the military chose theirs.Landor.
literati: Learned or literary men. See Literatus.Shakespearean commentators, and other literati. Craik.
literatim: Letter for letter.
literation: The act or process of representing by letters.
literatus: A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chieflyused in the plural.Now we are to consider that our bright ideal of a literatus maychance to be maimed. De Quincey.
lith: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. Chaucer.
lithaemia: A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in theblood.
lithagogue: A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expellingcalculous matter with the urine. Hooper.
litharge: Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as anamorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating leadmoderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate orcarbonate. It is used in making flint glass, in glazing earthenware,in making red lead minium, etc. Called also massicot.
lithargyrum: Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fineyellow scales.
lithate: A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate. [Obs.] [Written alsolithiate.]
lithe: To listen or listen to; to hearken to. [Obs.] P. Plowman.
lithely: In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner.
litheness: The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness.
lither: Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful. [Obs.] Chaucer.Not lither in business, fervent in spirit. Bp. Woolton.
litherly: Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous;lazy.[Archaic]He [the dwarf] was waspish, arch, and litherly. Sir W. Scott.
lithesome: Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom.-- Lithe"some*ness, n.
lithia: The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar topotash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. Lithia emerald. SeeHiddenite.
lithiasis: The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part ofthe body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages. Dunglison.
lithic: Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) inthe bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis. LIthicacid (Old Med. Chem.), uric acid. See Uric acid, under Uric.
lithiophilite: A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite.
lithium: A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in severalminerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., andotherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.
litho: A combining form from Gr. stone.
lithobilic: Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaricacid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtainedfrom certain bile products, as bezoar stones.
lithocarp: Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite.
lithochromatics: See Lithochromics.
lithochromics: The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oilpaintings on stone.
lithoclast: An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder.
lithocyst: A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths). Theyare found in many Medusæ, and other invertebrates, and are supposedto be auditory organs.
lithodome: Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes inlimestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genusLithodomus.
lithodomous: Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous.
lithodomus: A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, andremarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solidlimestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.
lithofellic: Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid,resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions(bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope.
lithofracteur: An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.
lithogenesy: The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composingthe globe.
lithogenous: Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral.
lithoglyph: An engraving on a gem.
lithoglypher: One who curs or engraves precious stones.
lithoglyphic: Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving preciousstones.
lithoglyptics: The art of cutting and engraving gems.
lithograph: To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as totransfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design;to lithograph a painting. See Lithography.
lithographer: One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.
lithography: The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasymaterial, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom.The process depends, in the main, upon the antipathy between greaseand water, which prevents a printing ink containing oil from adheringto wetted parts of the stone not covered by the design. SeeLithographic limestone, under Lithographic.
litholatry: The worship of a stone or stones.
lithologically: From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratumlithologically.
lithologist: One who is skilled in lithology.
lithology: A treatise on stones found in the body.
lithomancy: Divination by means of stones.
lithomarge: A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.
lithontriptic: Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroyingstone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps.-- n.
lithontriptist: Same as Lithotriptist.
lithontriptor: See Lithotriptor.
lithophane: Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct bytransmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lampshade.
lithophosphor: A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat.
lithophosphoric: Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat.
lithophotography: Same as Photolithography.
lithophyll: A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf.
lithophyse: A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observedin some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas. It is supposed to beproduced by expanding gas, whence the name.
lithophyte: A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians,corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareousaxis. All the lithophytes except the corallines are animals.
lithophytic: Of or pertaining to lithophytes.
lithophytous: Lithophytic.
lithosian: Any one of various species of moths belonging to the familyLithosidæ. Many of them are beautifully colored.
lithotome: An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations forthe stone.
lithotomist: One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in thebladder, or one who is skilled in the operation.
lithotomy: The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in thebladder.
lithotripsy: The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with aninstrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity.
lithotriptic: Same as Lithontriptic.
lithotriptist: One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder.
lithotriptor: An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; alithotrite.
lithotritist: A lithotriptist.
lithotrity: The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into smallpieces capable of being voided.
lithotype: A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that whichin printed from it. See Lithotypy.
lithotypic: Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy.
lithotypy: The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate,by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, acomposition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality, togetherwith a little tar and linseed oil, all in a heated state.
lithoxyl: Petrified wood. [Obs.]
lithuanian: Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality unitedwith Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory).
lithy: Easily bent; pliable. Lithy tree (Bot.), a European shrub(Viburnum Lantana); -- so named from its tough and flexible stem.
litigable: Such as can be litigated.
litigant: Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit;as, the parties litigant. Ayliffe.
litigate: To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; toprosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, andjudicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause.
litigation: The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicialcontest.
litigator: One who litigates.
litigiously: In a litigious manner.
litigiousness: The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carryon lawsuits.
litmus: A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria,Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists ofa compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring mattersrelated to orcin and orcein.
litotes: A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoidingcensure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderationshown in the form of expression; as, " a citizen of no mean city,"that is, of an illustrious city.
litraneter: An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids.
litre: Same as Liter.
litterateur: One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; aliteratus. " Befriended by one kind-hearted littérateur afteranother." C. Kingsley.
littery: Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of orconstituting litter.
little: In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; --often with a preceding it. " The poor sleep little." Otway.
little-ease: An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of aprison.[Eng.] Latimer.
littleness: The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size,thought, duration, power, etc.
littoral: Inhabiting the seashore, esp. the zone between high-water andlow-water mark.
littorina: A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiralshells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts. Theyfeed on seaweeds. The common periwinkle is a well-known example. SeePeriwinkle.
littress: A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards. Knight.
lituate: Forked, with the points slightly curved outward.
lituiform: Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite.
lituite: Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites. They are foundin the Cretaceous formation.
liturate: Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins.
liturgically: In the manner of a liturgy.
liturgics: The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretationof liturgies.
liturgiologist: One versed in liturgiology.
liturgiology: The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, ordescription of, liturgies. Shipley.
liturgist: One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy. Milton.
liturgy: An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritualfor public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; aformulary for public prayer or devotion. In the Roman Catholic Churchit includes all forms and services in any language, in any part ofthe world, for the celebration of Mass.
lituus: A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve thesquare of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which theradius vector makes with a given line.
live: Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of alathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state thatacts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body.Dunglison.-- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopicalexamination. P. H. Gosse.-- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the livingbird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic.-- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang.-- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis.-- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; amoving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressureon a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens),growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highlyesteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and someother species are also called live oaks.-- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which aswing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around acircular track when the bridge or table turns.-- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose,in distinction from exhaust steam.-- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on afarm. whole body.
live-forever: A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extremepowers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine.
lived: Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived;short-lived.
livelihed: See Livelihood. [Obs.]
livelihood: Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support;support of life; maintenance.The opportunities of gaining an honest livelihood. Addison.It is their profession and livelihood to get their living bypractices for which they deserve to forfeit their lives. South.
livelily: In a lively manner. [Obs.] Lamb.
livelode: Course of life; means of support; livelihood. [Obs.]
liver: A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceralcavity of all vertebrates.
liver-colored: Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown.
liver-grown: Having an enlarged liver. Dunglison.
livered: Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered.
liveried: Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3.The liveried servants wait. Parnell.
livering: A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork. [Obs.]Chapman.
liverleaf: Same as Liverwort.
livery: To clothe in, or as in, livery. Shak.
livery stable: . A stable where horses are kept for hire, and where stablingis provided. See Livery, n., 3 (e) (f) & (g).
lives: pl. of Life.
livid: Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, asflesh by contusion. Cowper.There followed no carbuncles, no purple or livid spots, the mass ofthe blood not being tainted. Bacon.
lividity: The state or quality of being livid.
lividness: Lividity. Walpole.
living picture: A tableau in which persons take part; also, specif., such atableau as imitating a work of art.
livingly: In a living state. Sir T. Browne.
livingness: The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy orvigor; animation; quickening.
livonian: Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near theBaltic Sea.
livor: Malignity. [P.] Burton.
livraison: A part of a book or literary composition printed and deliveredby itself; a number; a part.
livre: A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc.
lixiviate: To subject to a washing process for the purpose of separatingsoluble material from that which is insoluble; to leach, as ashes,for the purpose of extracting the alkaline substances.
lixiviation: Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance formone that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water;leaching.
lixivious: See Lixivial.
lixivium: A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence,any solution obtained by lixiviation.
lixt: 2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, --contracted for ligest. Chaucer.
liza: The American white mullet (Mugil curema).
lizard: Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to theorder Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of otherorders, as the Hatteria.
llama: A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to thecamels, but much smaller and without a hump. It is supposed to be adomesticated variety of the guanaco. It was formerly much used as abeast of burden in the Andes.
llandeilo group: A series of strata in the lower Silurian formations of GreatBritain; -- so named from Llandeilo in Southern Wales. See Chart ofGeology.
llanero: One of the inhabitants of the llanos of South America.
llano: An extensive plain with or without vegetation. [SpanishAmerica]
lo: Look; see; behold; observe. " Lo, here is Christ." Matt. xxiv.23. " Lo, we turn to the Gentiles." Acts xiii. 46.
loach: Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of thegenera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or morebarbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. Thecommon European species (N. barbatulus) is used as a food fish.
load: The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover whenworking. Load line, or Load water line (Naut.), the line on theoutside of a vessel indicating the depth to which it sinks in thewater when loaded.
loader: One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance forloading, as a gun.
loading: Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman. [Obs.] Chaucer.
loaf: Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularlyshaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake. Bacon. Loafsugar, refined sugar that has been formed into a conical loaf in amold.
loafer: One who loafs; a lazy lounger. Lowell.
loam: A mixture of sand, clay, and other materials, used in makingmolds for large castings, often without a pattern. Loam mold(Founding), a mold made with loam. See Loam, n., 2.-- Loam molding, the process or business of making loam molds. Loamplate, an iron plate upon which a section of a loam mold rests, orfrom which it is suspended.-- Loam work, loam molding or loam molds.
loamy: Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resemblingloam. Bacon.
loan: A loanin. [Scot.]
loanable: Such as can be lent; available for lending; as, loanable funds;-- used mostly in financial business and writings.
loanmonger: A dealer in, or negotiator of, loans.The millions of the loanmonger. Beaconsfield.
loathe: To feel disgust or nausea. [Obs.]
loather: One who loathes.
loathing: Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, ordetestation.The mutual fear and loathing of the hostile races. Macaulay.
loathingly: With loathing.
loathliness: Loathsomeness. [Obs.]
loathly: Loathsome. [Obs.] " Loathly mouth." Spenser.
loathness: Unwillingness; reluctance.A general silence and loathness to speak. Bacon.
loathsome: Fitted to cause loathing; exciting disgust; disgusting.The most loathsome and deadly forms of infection. Macaulay.-- Loath"some*ly. adv.-- Loath"some*ness, n.
loathy: Loathsome. [Obs.] Spenser.
loaves: pl. of Loaf.
lob: To let fall heavily or lazily.And their poor jades Lob down their heads. Shak.To lob a ball (Lawn Tennis), to strike a ball so as to send it upinto the air.
lobar: Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobeor lobes.
lobately: As a lobe; so as to make a lobe; in a lobate manner.
lobbish: Like a lob; consisting of lobs. Sir. P. Sidney.
lobby: A passage or hall of communication, especially when largeenough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from anantechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, anantechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefullypreserved.
lobbyist: A member of the lobby; a person who solicits members of alegislature for the purpose of influencing legislation. [U.S.]
lobcock: A dull, sluggish person; a lubber; a lob. [Low]
lobe: Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhatrounded form; as:(a) (Bot.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf. Gray.(b)(Zoöl.)
lobe-footed: Lobiped.
lobed: Having lobes; lobate.
lobefoot: A bird having lobate toes; esp., a phalarope.
lobelet: A small lobe; a lobule.
lobelia: A genus of plants, including a great number of species. Lobeliainflata, or Indian tobacco, is an annual plant of North America,whose leaves contain a poisonous white viscid juice, of an acridtaste. It has often been used in medicine as an emetic, expectorant,etc. L. cardinalis is the cardinal flower, remarkable for the deepand vivid red color of its flowers.
lobeliaceous: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants of which thegenus Lobelia is the type.
lobelin: A yellowish green resin from Lobelia, used as an emetic anddiaphoretic.
lobeline: A poisonous narcotic alkaloid extracted from the leaves ofIndian tobacco (Lobelia inflata) as a yellow oil, having atobaccolike taste and odor.
lobiped: Having lobate toes, as a coot.
loblolly: Gruel; porridge; -- so called among seamen. Loblolly bay(Bot.), an elegant white-flowered evergreen shrub or small tree, ofthe genus Gordonia (G. Lasianthus), growing in the maritime parts ofthe Southern United States. Its bark is sometimes used in tanning.Also, a similar West Indian tree (Laplacea hæmatoxylon).-- Loblolly boy, a surgeon's attendant on shipboard. Smollett.-- Loblolly pine (Bot.), a kind of pitch pine found from Delawaresouthward along the coast; old field pine (Pinus Tæda). Also, P.Bahamensis, of the West Indies.-- Loblolly tree (Bot.), a name of several West Indian trees, havingmore or less leathery foliage, but alike in no other respect; asPisonia subcordata, Cordia alba, and Cupania glabra.
lobosa: An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick andirregular in form, as in the Amoeba.
lobscouse: A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usuallystewed, sometimes baked; an olio.
lobsided: See Lopsided.
lobspound: A prison. [Obs.] Hudibras.
lobster: Any large macrurous crustacean used as food, esp. those of thegenus Homarus; as the American lobster (H. Americanus), and theEuropean lobster (H. vulgaris). The Norwegian lobster (NephropsNorvegicus) is similar in form. All these have a pair of largeunequal claws. The spiny lobsters of more southern waters, belongingto Palinurus, Panulirus, and allied genera, have no large claws. Thefresh-water crayfishes are sometimes called lobsters. Lobstercaterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar of a European bombycid moth(Stauropus fagi); -- so called from its form. Lobster louse (Zoöl.),a copepod crustacean (Nicothoë astaci) parasitic on the gills of theEuropean lobster.
lobular: Like a lobule; pertaining to a lobule or lobules.
lobule: A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe. Lobule of the ear.(Anat.) Same as Lobe of the ear.
lobulette: A little lobule, or subdivision of a lobule.
lobworm: The lugworm.
local: Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite regionor portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a localcustom.Gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Shak.Local actions (Law), actions such as must be brought in a particularcounty, where the cause arises; -- distinguished from transitoryactions.-- Local affection (Med.), a disease or ailment confined to aparticular part or organ, and not directly affecting the system.-- Local attraction (Magnetism), an attraction near a compass,causing its needle to deviate from its proper direction, especiallyon shipboard.-- Local battery (Teleg.), the battery which actuates the recordinginstruments of a telegraphic station, as distinguished from thebattery furnishing a current for the line.-- Local circuit (Teleg.), the circuit of the local battery.-- Local color. (a) (Paint.) The color which belongs to an object,and is not caused by accidental influences, as of reflection, shadow,etc. (b) (Literature) Peculiarities of the place and its inhabitantswhere the scene of an action or story is laid.-- Local option, the right or obligation of determining by popularvote within certain districts, as in each county, city, or town,whether the sale of alcoholic beverages within the district shall beallowed.
locality: The perceptive faculty concerned with the ability to rememberthe relative positions of places.
localization: Act of localizing, or state of being localized. Cerebrallocalization (Physiol.), the localization of the control of specialfunctions, as of sight or of the various movements of the body, inspecial regions of the brain.
localize: To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place. H.Spencer. Wordsworth.
locally: With respect to place; in place; as, to be locally separated ordistant.
locate: To place one's self; to take up one's residence; to settle.[Colloq.]
location: The marking out of the boundaries, or identifying the place orsite of, a piece of land, according to the description given in anentry, plan, map, etc. Burrill. Bouvier.
locative: Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, alocative adjective; locative case of a noun.-- n.
locator: One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a miningclaim. [U.S.]
locellate: Divided into secondary compartments or cells, as where onecavity is separated into several smaller ones.
loch: A lake; a bay or arm of the sea. [Scot.]
lochage: An officer who commanded a company; a captain. Mitford.
lochan: A small lake; a pond. [Scot.]A pond or lochan rather than a lake. H. Miller.
loche: See Loach.
lochia: The discharge from the womb and vagina which followschildbirth.
lochial: Of or pertaining to the lochia.
lock: A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, orother like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair.These gray locks, the pursuivants of death. Shak.
lock hospital: . A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases. [Eng.]
lock step: . A mode of marching by a body of men going one after anotheras closely as possible, in which the leg of each moves at the sametime with the corresponding leg of the person before him.
lock stitch: . A peculiar sort of stitch formed by the locking of twothreads together, as in the work done by some sewing machines. SeeStitch.
lock-down: A contrivance to fasten logs together in rafting; -- used bylumbermen. [U.S.]
lock-weir: A waste weir for a canal, discharging into a lock chamber.
locked-jaw: See Lockjaw.
locken: of Lock. Chaucer.
lockjaw: A contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion issuspended; a variety of tetanus.
lockless: Destitute of a lock.
lockman: A public executioner. [Scot.]
lockout: The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually inorder to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension ofwages.
lockram: A kind of linen cloth anciently used in England, originallyimported from Brittany. Shak.
locksmith: An artificer whose occupation is to make or mend locks.
lockup: A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; awatchhouse.
locky: Having locks or tufts. [R.] Sherwood.
loco: A direction in written or printed music to return to the properpitch after having played an octave higher.
loco disease: A chronic nervous affection of cattle, horses, and sheep,caused by eating the loco weed and characterized by a slow, measuredgait, high step, glassy eyes with defective vision, delirium, andgradual emaciation.
locomotive: A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage,especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steamengines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel thecarriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons,railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Consolidationlocomotive, a locomotive having four pairs of connected drivers.-- Locomotive car, a locomotive and a car combined in one vehicle; adummy engine. [U.S.] -- Locomotive engine. Same as Locomotive, above.-- Mogul locomotive. See Mogul.
locomotor: Of or pertaining to movement or locomotion. Locomotor ataxia,or Progressive locomotor ataxy (Med.), a disease of the spinal cordcharacterized by peculiar disturbances of gait, and difficulty incoördinating voluntary movements.
loculament: The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged.
locular: Of or relating to the cell or compartment of an ovary, etc.; incomposition, having cells; as trilocular. Gray.
loculate: Divided into compartments.
locule: A little hollow; a loculus.
loculicidal: Dehiscent through the middle of the back of each cell; -- saidof capsules.
loculus: One of the spaces between the septa in the Anthozoa.
locum tenens: A substitute or deputy; one filling an office for a time.
locus: The line traced by a point which varies its position accordingto some determinate law; the surface described by a point or linethat moves according to a given law. Plane locus, a locus that is astraight line, or a circle.-- Solid locus, a locus that is one of the conic sections.
locust: Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory,orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididæ, allied to thegrasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, or Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridiumperigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the UnitedStates the related species with similar habits are usually calledgrasshoppers. See Grasshopper.
locust tree: A large North American tree of the genus Robinia (R.Pseudacacia), producing large slender racemes of white, fragrant,papilionaceous flowers, and often cultivated as an ornamental tree.In England it is called acacia.
locusta: The spikelet or flower cluster of grasses. Gray.
locustella: The European cricket warbler.
locustic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the locust; -- formerly used todesignate a supposed acid.
locusting: Swarming and devastating like locusts. [R.] Tennyson.
locution: Speech or discourse; a phrase; a form or mode of expression. "Stumbling locutions." G. Eliot.I hate these figures in locution, These about phrases forced byceremony. Marston.
locutory: A room for conversation; especially, a room in monasteries,where the monks were allowed to converse.
lodde: The capelin.
lode: A metallic vein; any regular vein or course, whether metallicor not.
lode-ship: An old name for a pilot boat.
lodemanage: Pilotage. [Obs.]
lodesman: Same as Loadsman. [Obs.]
lodestar: Same as Loadstar.
lodestone: Same as Loadstone.
lodge: The space at the mouth of a level next the shaft, widened topermit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; -- calledalso platt. Raymond.
lodged: Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is ofbeasts of prey.
lodgement: See Lodgment.
lodger: One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired roomin another's house.
lodgment: The occupation and holding of a position, as by a besiegingparty; an instrument thrown up in a captured position; as, to effecta lodgment.
lodicule: One of the two or three delicate membranous scales which arenext to the stamens in grasses.
loellingite: A tin-white arsenide of iron, isomorphous with arsenopyrite.
loess: A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowishearth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers.
loffe: To laugh. [Obs.] Shak.
loft: That which is lifted up; an elevation. Hence, especially:(a) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of theuppermost story.(b) A gallery or raised apartment in a church, hall, etc.; as, anorgan loft.(c) A floor or room placed above another; a story.Eutychus . . . fell down from the third loft. Acts xx. 9.On loft, aloft; on high. Cf. Onloft. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lofter: An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also loftingiron.
loftily: In a lofty manner or position; haughtily.
loftiness: The state or quality of being lofty.
lofting iron: Same as Lofter.
log: A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills. W. H. Ward.
log-chip: A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of acircle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship. See 2d Log,n., 2.
log-ship: A part of the log. See Log-chip, and 2d Log, n., 2.
logan: A rocking or balanced stone. Gwill.
logaoedic: Composed of dactyls and trochees so arranged as to produce amovement like that of ordinary speech.
logarithm: One of a class of auxiliary numbers, devised by John Napier, ofMerchiston, Scotland (1550-1617), to abridge arithmeticalcalculations, by the use of addition and subtraction in place ofmultiplication and division.
logarithmetically: Logarithmically.
logarithmically: By the use of logarithms.
logcock: The pileated woodpecker.
loge: A lodge; a habitation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
loggan: See Logan.
loggat: An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at astake set in the ground. [Obs.] Shak.
logge: See Lodge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
logged: Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged. Beaconsfield.
logger: One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. [U.S.] Lowell.
loggerhead: An upright piece of round timber, in a whaleboat, over which aturn of the line is taken when it is running out too fast. Ham. Nav.Encyc.
loggerheaded: Dull; stupid. Shak.A rabble of loggerheaded physicians. Urquhart.
loggerheads: The knapweed.
loggia: A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being morearchitectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the mainedifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended notfor entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room.
logging: The business of felling trees, cutting them into logs, andtransporting the logs to sawmills or to market.
logicality: Logicalness.
logically: In a logical manner; as, to argue logically.
logicalness: The quality of being logical.
logician: A person skilled in logic. Bacon.Each fierce logician still expelling Locke. Pope.
logics: See Logic.
logistics: That branch of the military art which embraces the details ofmoving and supplying armies. The meaning of the word is by somewriters extended to include strategy. H. L. Scott.
logman: A man who carries logs. Shak.
logodaedaly: Verbal legerdemain; a playing with words. [R.] Coleridge.
logogram: A word letter; a phonogram, that, for the sake of brevity,represents a word; as, |, i. e., t, for it. Cf. Grammalogue.
logographer: Of or pertaining to logography.
logogriph: A sort of riddle in which it is required to discover a chosenword from various combinations of its letters, or of some of itsletters, which form other words; -- thus, to discover the chosen wordchatter form cat, hat, rat, hate, rate, etc. B. Jonson.
logomachist: One who contends about words.
logometric: Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents;stoichiometric. [R.]
logothete: An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; areceiver of revenue; an administrator of a department.
logotype: A single type, containing two or more letters; as, æ, Æ, fi,fl, ffl, etc. ; -- called also ligature.
logroll: To engage in logrolling; to accomplish by logrolling.[Political cant, U. S.]
logroller: One who engages in logrolling. [Political cant, U. S.]The jobbers and logrollers will all be against it. The. Nation.
logrolling: The act or process of rolling logs from the place where theywere felled to the stream which floats them to the sawmill or tomarket. In this labor neighboring camps of loggers combine to assisteach other in turn. Longfellow. [U.S.]
logwood: The heartwood of a tree (Hæmatoxylon Campechianum), a native ofSouth America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystallinesubstance called hæmatoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing. Anextract from this wood is used in medicine as an astringent. Alsocalled Campeachy wood, and bloodwood.
logy: Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logyhorse. [U.S.]Porcupines are . . . logy, sluggish creatures. C. H. Merriam.
lohock: See Loch, a medicine.
loimic: Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders.
loin: That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends oneither side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the falseribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. SeeIllust. of Beef.
loir: A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis).
loiteringly: In a loitering manner.
lokao: A green vegetable dye imported from China.
loke: A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door.[Prov. Eng.]
lokorys: Liquorice. [Obs.] Chaucer.
loligo: A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids,common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used forfish bait.
loll: To let hang from the mouth, as the tongue.Fierce tigers couched around and lolled their fawning tongues.Dryden.
lollard: The doctrines or principles of the Lollards.
lollingly: In a lolling manner. Buckle.
lollipop: A kind of sugar confection which dissolves easily in the mouth.Thackeray.
lollop: To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll. [Law.] CharlesReade.
loma: A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap.
lomatinous: Furnished with lobes or flaps.
lombard: Of or pertaining to Lombardy, or the inhabitants of Lombardy.
lombardeer: A pawnbroker. [Obs.] Howell.
lombardic: Of or pertaining to Lombardy of the Lombards. Lombardicalphabet, the ancient alphabet derived from the Roman, and employedin the manuscript of Italy.-- Lombardic architecture, the debased Roman style of architectureas found in parts of Northern Italy. F. G. Lee. Lombardy poplar.(Bot.) See Poplar.
loment: An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves,but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a singleseed.
lomentaceous: Of the nature of a loment; having fruits like loments.
lomonite: Same as Laumontite.
lompish: Lumpish. [Obs.] Spenser.
lond: Land. [Obs.] Chaucer.
london: The capital city of England. London paste (Med.), a paste madeof caustic soda and unslacked lime; -- used as a caustic to destroytumors and other morbid enlargements.-- London pride. (Bot.) (a) A garden name for Saxifraga umbrosa, ahardy perennial herbaceous plant, a native of high lands in GreatBritain. (b) A name anciently given to the Sweet William. Dr. Prior.-- London rocket (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (Sisymbrium Irio) whichsprung up in London abundantly on the ruins of the great fire of1667.
london smoke: A neutral tint given to spectacles, shade glasses for opticalinstruments, etc., which reduces the intensity without materiallychanging the color of the transmitted light.
london tuft: The Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus).
londoner: A native or inhabitant of London. Shak.
londonism: A characteristic of Londoners; a mode of speaking peculiar toLondon.
londonize: To impart to (one) a manner or character like that whichdistinguishes Londoners.
lone: A lane. See Loanin. [Prov. Eng.]
lone-star state: Texas; -- a nickname alluding to the single star on its coat ofarms, being the device used on its flag and seal when it was arepublic.
loneness: Solitude; seclusion. [Obs.] Donne.
long: Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- saidof vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide toPronunciation, §§ 22, 30.
long primer: A kind of type, in size between small pica and bourgeois.
long-armed: Having long arms; as, the long-armed ape or gibbon.
long-breathed: Having the power of retaining the breath for a long time; long-winded.
long-drawn: Extended to a great length.The cicadæ hushed their long-drawn, ear-splitting strains. G. W.Cable.
long-horned: Having a long horn or horns; as, a long-horned goat, or cow;having long antennæ, as certain beetles (Longicornia).
long-lived: Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities whichmake long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; theyare a longlived family; long-lived prejudices.
long-sight: Long-sightedness Good.
long-sightedness: See Hypermetropia.
long-stop: One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper.
long-sufferance: Forbearance to punish or resent.
long-suffering: Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; noteasily provoked.The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant ingoodness and truth. Ex. xxxiv. 6.
long-tongue: The wryneck.
long-winded: Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consumingmuch time; as, a long-winded talker.-- Long"-wind"ed*ness, n.A tedious, long-winded harangue. South.
longan: A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by anevergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan).
longanimity: Disposition to bear injuries patiently; forbearance; patience.Jer. Taylor.
longbeak: The American redbellied snipe (Macrorhamphus scolopaceus); --called also long-billed dowitcher.
longboat: Formerly, the largest boat carried by a merchant vessel,corresponding to the launch of a naval vessel.
longbow: The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called indistinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war.Also, sometimes, such a bow of about the height of a man, asdistinguished from a much shorter one. To draw the longbow, to telllarge stories.
longe: Same as 4th Lunge.
longer: One who longs for anything.
longeval: Long-loved; longevous.[R.] Pope.
longevity: Long duration of life; length of life.The instances of longevity are chiefly amongst the abstemious.Arbuthnot.
longevous: Living a long time; of great age. Sir T. Browne.
longhand: The written characters used in the common method of writing; --opposed to shorthand.
longheaded: Having unusual foresight or sagacity.-- Long"-head`ed*ness, n.
longhorn: A long-horned animal, as a cow, goat, or beetle. See Long-horned.
longicorn: Long-horned; pertaining to the Longicornia.-- n.
longicornia: A division of beetles, including a large number of species, inwhich the antennæ are very long. Most of them, while in the larvalstate, bore into the wood or beneath the bark of trees, and somespecies are very destructive to fruit and shade trees. See Appleborer, under Apple, and Locust beetle, under Locust.
longilateral: Having long sides especially, having the form of a longparallelogram.Nineveh . . . was of a longilateral figure, ninety-five furlongsbroad, and a hundred and fifty long. Sir T. Browne.
longiloquence: Long-windedness.American longiloquence in oratory. Fitzed. Hall.
longimanous: Having long hands. Sir T. Browne.
longimetry: The art or practice of measuring distances or lengths. Cheyne.
longing: An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish;an aspiration.Put on my crown; I have immortal longings in me. Shak.
longingly: With longing. Dryden.
longinquity: Greatness of distance; remoteness. [R.] Barrow.
longipalp: One of a tribe of beetles, having long maxillary palpi.
longipennate: Having long wings, or quills.
longipennes: A group of longwinged sea birds, including the gulls, petrels,etc.
longipennine: Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate.
longiroster: One of the Longirostres.
longirostral: Having a long bill; of or pertaining to the Longirostres.
longirostres: A group of birds characterized by having long slender bills, asthe sandpipers, curlews, and ibises. It is now regarded as anartificial division.
longish: Somewhat long; moderately long.
longitude: The arc or portion of the equator intersected between themeridian of a given place and the meridian of some other place fromwhich longitude is reckoned, as from Greenwich, England, or sometimesfrom the capital of a country, as from Washington or Paris. Thelongitude of a place is expressed either in degrees or in time; as,that of New York is 74º or 4 h. 56 min. west of Greenwich.
longitudinal: A railway sleeper lying parallel with the rail.
longitudinally: In the direction of length.
longlegs: A daddy longlegs.
longmynd rocks: The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, andstates of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambriansystem; -- so called, because typically developed in the LongmyndHills, Shropshire.
longness: Length.
longnose: The European garfish.
longshanks: The stilt.
longshore: Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore."Longshore thieves." R. Browning.
longshoreman: One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of aseaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.
longsome: Extended in length; tiresome. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Prior.-- Long"some*ness, n. [Obs.] Fuller.
longspun: Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded;tedious.The longspun allegories fulsome grow, While the dull moral lies tooplain below. Addison.
longspur: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genusCalcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera. The Lapland longspur(C. Lapponicus), the chestnut-colored longspur (C. ornatus), andother species, inhabit the United States.
longtail: An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail. Cf.Curtail. Dog.
longulite: A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form.
longways: Lengthwise. Addison.
longwise: Lengthwise.
loo: To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick. [Writtenalso lu.] Goldsmith.
loob: The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing.
loobily: Loobylike; awkward. Fuller.
looby: An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. Swift.
looch: See 2d Loch.
loof: The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant(Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge.
lookdown: See Moonfish (b).
looker: One who looks. Looker-on, a spectator; one that looks on, buthas no agency or part in an affair.Did not this fatal war affront thy coast, Yet sattest thou an idlelooker-on Fairfax.
looking: Having a certain look or appearance; -- often compounded withadjectives; as, good-looking, grand-looking, etc.
looking-glass: A mirror made of glass on which has been placed a backing ofsome reflecting substance, as quicksilver.There is none so homely but loves a looking-glass. South.
lool: A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals.
loom: See Loon, the bird.
loom-gale: A gentle gale of wind.
looming: The indistinct and magnified appearance of objects seen inparticular states of the atmosphere. See Mirage.
loon: A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue.
loony: See Luny.
loop: A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball forthe tilt hammer or rolls. [Written also loup.]
looper: The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid.
loophole: A small opening, as in the walls of fortification, or in thebulkhead of a ship, through which small arms or other weapons may bedischarged at an enemy.
loopholed: Provided with loopholes.
loopie: Deceitful; cunning; sly. [Scot.]
looping: The running together of the matter of an ore into a mass, whenthe ore is only heated for calcination.
looplight: A small narrow opening or window in a tower or fortified wall;a loophole.
loord: A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. [Obs.] Spenser.
loos: Praise; fame; reputation. [Obs.] Spenser.Good conscience and good loos. Chaucer.
loose: To set sail. [Obs.] Acts xiii. 13.
loosely: In a loose manner.
loosen: To become loose; to become less tight, firm, or compact. S.Sharp.
loosener: One who, or that which, loosens.
looseness: The state, condition, or quality, of being loose; as, thelooseness of a cord; looseness of style; looseness of morals or ofprinciples.
loosish: Somewhat loose.
loot: To plunder; to carry off as plunder or a prize lawfullyobtained by war.Looting parties . . . ransacking the houses. L.O
looter: A plunderer.
loover: See Louver.
lop: A flea.[Obs.] Cleveland.
lope: of Leap. [Obs.]And, laughing, lope into a tree. Spenser.
lopeared: Having ears which lop or hang down.
lopeman: Leaper; ropedancer. [Obs.]
loper: A swivel at one end of a ropewalk, used in laying the strands.
lophine: A nitrogenous organic base obtained by the oxidation ofamarine, and regarded as a derivative of benzoic aldehyde. It isobtained in long white crystalline tufts, -- whence its name.
lophiomys: A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of NortheasternAfrica. It is the only known representative of a special family(Lophiomyidæ), remarkable for the structure of the skull. It hashandlike feet, and the hair is peculiar in structure and arrangement.
lophobranch: Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.-- n.
lophobranchiate: Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.
lophobranchii: An order of teleostean fishes, having the gills arranged intufts on the branchial arches, as the Hippocampus and pipefishes.
lophophore: A disk which surrounds the mouth and bears the tentacles of theBryozoa. See Phylactolemata.
lophopoda: Same as Phylactolemata.
lophosteon: The central keel-bearing part of the sternum in birds.
loppard: A tree, the top of which has been lopped off. [Eng.]
lopper: One who lops or cuts off.
lopping: A cutting off, as of branches; that which is cut off; leavings.The loppings made from that stock whilst it stood. Burke.
loppy: Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.
lopseed: A perennial herb (Phryma Leptostachya), having slender seedlikefruits.
loquaciously: In a loquacious manner.
loquaciousness: Loquacity.
loquacity: The habit or practice of talking continually or excessively;inclination to talk too much; talkativeness; garrulity.Too great loquacity and too great taciturnity by fits. Arbuthnot.
loquat: The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is aslarge as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four orfive large seeds. Also, the tree itself.
loral: Of or pertaining to the lores.
lorate: Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate.
lorcha: A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having thehull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of aChinese junk. Admiral Foote.
lord: A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively. [Eng.]Richardson (Dict.).
lordkin: A little lord. Thackeray.
lordliness: The state or quality of being lordly. Shak.
lordling: A little or insignificant lord. Goldsmith.
lordly: In a lordly manner.
lordolatry: Worship of, or reverence for, a lord as such. [Jocose]But how should it be otherwise in a country where lordolatry is partof our creed Thackeray.
lords and ladies: The European wake-robin (Arum maculatum), -- those withpurplish spadix the lords, and those with pale spadix the ladies. Dr.Prior.
lore: Lost.Neither of them she found where she them lore. Spenser.
lorel: A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond. [Obs.] Chaucer.
loren: of Lose. Chaucer.
loresman: An instructor. [Obs.] Gower.
lorette: In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers,and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so calledfrom the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which manyof them resided.
lorettine: One of a order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky.The members of the order (called also Sisters of Loretto, or Friendsof Mary at the Foot of the Cross) devote themselves to the cause ofeducation and the care of destitute orphans, their labors beingchiefly confined to the Western United States.
lorgnette: An opera glass; pl.
lori: Same as Lory.
lorica: A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metalor horn sewed on linen or the like.
loricate: To cover with some protecting substance, as with lute, a crust,coating, or plates.
lorication: The act of loricating; the protecting substance put on; acovering of scales or plates.
lorikeet: Any one numerous species of small brush-tongued parrots orlories, found mostly in Australia, New Guinea and the adjacentislands, with some forms in the East Indies. They are arboreal intheir habits and feed largely upon the honey of flowers. They belongto Trichoglossus, Loriculus, and several allied genera.
loring: Instructive discourse. [Obs.] Spenser.
loriot: The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole.
loris: Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genusStenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and arearboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis), of Ceylon,in one of the best known species. [Written also lori.]
lorn: A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in minesto carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shiftingbaggage, as at railway stations.
lory: Any one of many species of small parrots of the familyTrichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, andthe mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots.They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and theadjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey offlowers.
los: Praise. See Loos. [Obs.] Chaucer.
losable: Such as can be lost.
losange: See Lozenge.
lose: To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp.as the result of any kind of contest.We 'll . . . hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk withthem too, Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out. Shak.
losel: One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel.[Archaic] Spenser.One sad losel soils a name for aye. Byron.
losenger: A flatterer; a deceiver; a cozener. [Obs.] Chaucer.To a fair pair of gallows, there to end their lives with shame, as anumber of such other losengers had done. Holinshed.
losengerie: Flattery; deceit; trickery. [Obs.] Chaucer.
loser: One who loses. South.
losing: Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening. [Obs.]Amongst the many simoniacal that swarmed in the land, Herbert, Bishopof Thetford, must not be forgotten; nick-named Losing, that is, theFratterer. Fuller.
losingly: In a manner to incur loss.
loss: Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property.
lossful: Detrimental. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
lossless: Free from loss. [Obs.] Milton.
lot: To allot; to sort; to portion. [R.] To lot on or upon, to countor reckon upon; to expect with pleasure. [Colloq. U. S.]
lote: A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe.It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettletree. Eng. Cyc.
lothario: A gay seducer of women; a libertine.
loto: See Lotto.
lotong: An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis).
lotophagi: A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings. They subsistedon the lotus. See Lotus (b), and Lotus-eater.
lotos: See Lotus.
lotto: A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribednumbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls)for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a cardhaving on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakesafter a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer.A variety of lotto is called keno. [Often written loto.]
loture: See Lotion. [Obs.] Holland.
lotus: An ornament much used in Egyptian architecture, generallyasserted to have been suggested by the Egyptian water lily.
louchettes: Goggles intended to rectify strabismus by permitting visiononly directly in front. Knight.
loud: With loudness; loudly.To speak loud in public assemblies. Addison.
loud-mouthed: Having a loud voice; talking or sounding noisily; noisilyimpudent.
loud-voiced: Having a loud voice; noisy; clamorous. Byron.
loudful: Noisy. [Obs.] Marsion.
loudly: In a loud manner. Denham.
loudness: The quality or state of being loud.
lough: A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland.
louis quatorze: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the art or style of the timesof Louis XIV. of France; as, Louis quatorze architecture.
louk: An accomplice; a "pal." [Obs.]There is no thief without a louk. Chaucer.
lounge: To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; topass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolentmanner.We lounge over the sciences, dawdle through literature, yawn overpolitics. J. Hannay.
lounger: One who lounges; ar idler.
loup: See 1st Loop.
loup-cervier: The Canada lynx. See Lynx.
loup-garou: A werewolf; a lycanthrope.
loup-loup: The Pomeranian or Spitz dog.
louping: An enzoötic, often fatal, disease of sheep and other domesticanimals, of unknown cause. It is characterized by muscular tremorsand spasms, followed by more or less complete paralysis. Theprincipal lesion is an inflammation of the membranes covering thebrain and spinal cord.
loups: The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principaltotem was the wolf.
lour: An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil.
louri: See Lory.
louse: To clean from lice. "You sat and loused him." Swift.
lousewort: Any species of Pedicularis, a genus of perennial herbs. It wassaid to make sheep that fed on it lousy. Yellow lousewort , a plantof the genus Rhinanthus.
lousily: In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily. [Vulgar]
lousiness: The state or quality of being lousy.
lout: To bend; to box; to stoop. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow.He fair the knight saluted, louting low. Spenser.
loutish: Clownish; rude; awkward. "Loutish clown." Sir P. Sidney.-- Lout"ish*ly, adv.-- Lout"*ish*ness, n.
loutou: A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java.
lovable: Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love;worthy of love.Elaine the fair, Elaine the lovable, Elaine, the lily maid ofAstolat. Tennyson.
lovage: An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes usedin medicine as an aromatic stimulant.
love: A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba).
love-drury: Affection. [Obs.] Chaucer.
love-making: Courtship. Bacon.
love-sickness: The state of being love-sick.
loveable: See Lovable.
lovee: One who is loved. [Humorous] "The lover and lovee." Richardson.
loveful: Full of love. [Obs.] Sylvester.
lovelily: In manner to excite love; amiably. [R.] Otway.
loveliness: The state or quality of being lovely.If there is such a native loveliness in the sex as to make themvictorious when in the wrong, how resistless their power when theyare on the side of truth! Spectator.
lovelock: A long lock of hair hanging prominently by itself; an earlock;-- worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I.Burton.A long lovelock and long hair he wore. Sir W. Scott.
lovelorn: Forsaken by one's love.The lovelorn nightingale. Milton.
lovely: In a manner to please, or to excite love. [Obs. or R.] Tyndale.
lovemonger: One who deals in affairs of love.[Obs.] Shak.
lover: See Louver. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
loverwise: As lovers do.As they sat down here loverwise. W. D. Howells.
lovesome: Lovely. [Obs.]
loving cup: A large ornamental drinking vessel having two or more handles,intended to pass from hand to hand, as at a banquet.
loving-kindness: Tender regard; mercy; favor. Ps. lxxxix. 33.
lovingly: With love; affectionately.
lovingness: Affection; kind regard.The only two bands of good will, loveliness and lovingness. Sir. P.Sidney.
lovyer: A lover. [Obs.] Chaucer.
low: , strong imp. of Laugh. Chaucer.
low steel: See under Low.
low-church: Not placing a high estimate on ecclesiastical organizations orforms; -- applied especially to Episcopalians, and opposed to high-church. See High Church, under High.
low-churchism: The principles of the low-church party.
low-churchman: One who holds low-church principles.
low-churchmanship: The state of being a low-churchman.
low-lived: Characteristic of, or like, one bred in a low and vulgarcondition of life; mean dishonorable; contemptible; as, low-liveddishonesty.
low-minded: Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a basemind.Low-minded and immoral. Macaulay.All old religious jealousies were condemned as low-mindedinfirmities. Bancroft.
low-mindedness: The quality of being lowminded; meanness; baseness.
low-necked: Cut low in the neck; decollete; -- said of a woman's dress.
low-pressure: Having, employing, or exerting, a low degree of pressure. Low-pressure steam engine, a steam engine in which low steam is used;often applied to a condensing engine even when steam at high pressureis used. See Steam engine.
low-spirited: Deficient in animation and courage; dejected; depressed; notsprightly.-- Low"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.
low-studded: Furnished or built with short studs; as, a low-studded house orroom.
low-thoughted: Having one's thoughts directed toward mean or insignificantsubjects.
lowbell: To frighten, as with a lowbell.
lowborn: Born in a low condition or rank; -- opposed to highborn.
lowboy: A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- appliedcommonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half hasbeen removed. [U. S.]
lowbred: Bred, or like one bred, in a low condition of life;characteristic or indicative of such breeding; rude; impolite;vulgar; as, a lowbred fellow; a lowbred remark.
lower: Compar. of Low, a.
lower-case: Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denotethe small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals.See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3.
lowering: Dark and threatening; gloomy; sullen; as, lowering clouds orsky.
loweringly: In a lowering manner; with cloudiness or threatening gloom.
lowermost: Lowest.
lowery: Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather.
lowing: The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals.
lowish: Somewhat low. [Colloq.] Richardson.
lowk: See Louk. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lowland: Land which is low with respect to the neighboring country; alow or level country; -- opposed to highland. The Lowlands, Belgiumand Holland; the Netherlands; also, the southern part of Scotland.
lowlander: A native or inhabitant of the Lowlands, especially of theLowlands of Scotland, as distinguished from Highlander.
lowlily: In a lowly place or manner; humbly. [Obs. or R.]Thinking lowlily of himself and highly of those better than himself.J. C. Shairp.
lown: A low fellow. [Obs.]
lowness: The state or quality of being low.
lowry: An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry.
loxodromic: Pertaining to sailing on rhumb lines; as, loxodromic tables.Loxodromic curve or line (Geom.), a line on the surface of a sphere,which always makes an equal angle with every meridian; the rhumbline. It is the line on which a ship sails when her course is alwaysin the direction of one and the same point of the compass.
loxodromics: The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line.
loxodromism: The act or process of tracing a loxodromic curve; the act ofmoving as if in a loxodromic curve.
loxodromy: The science of loxodromics. [R.]
loy: A long, narrow spade for stony lands.
loyalist: A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawfulauthority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his princeor government, and defends his cause in times of revolt orrevolution.
loyally: In a loyal manner; faithfully.
loyalness: Loyalty. [R.] Stow.
loyalty: The state or quality of being loyal; fidelity to a superior, orto duty, love, etc.He had such loyalty to the king as the law required. Clarendon.Not withstanding all the subtle bait With which those Amazons hislove still craved, To his one love his loyalty he saved. Spenser.
lozenge: Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb.The lozenged panes of a very small latticed window. C. Bronté.
lozengy: Divided into lozenge-shaped compartments, as the field or abearing, by lines drawn in the direction of the bend sinister.
lu: See Loo.
lubbard: A lubber. [Obs.] Swift.
lubber: A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown.Lingering lubbers lose many a penny. Tusser.Land lubber, a name given in contempt by sailors to a person wholives on land.-- Lubber grasshopper (Zoöl.), a large, stout, clumsy grasshopper;esp., Brachystola magna, from the Rocky Mountain plains, and Romaleamicroptera, which is injurious to orange trees in Florida.-- Lubber's hole (Naut.), a hole in the floor of the "top," next themast, through which sailors may go aloft without going over the rimby the futtock shrouds. It is considered by seamen as only fit to beused by lubbers. Totten.-- Lubber's line, point, or mark, a line or point in the compasscase indicating the head of the ship, and consequently the coursewhich the ship is steering.
lubberly: Like a lubber; clumsy.A great lubberly boy. Shak.
lubricant: Lubricating.
lubrication: The act of lubricating; the act of making slippery.
lubricitate: See Lubricate.
lubricous: Lubric.
lucarne: A dormer window.
lucchese: A native or inhabitant of Lucca, in Tuscany; in the plural, thepeople of Lucca.
luce: A pike when full grown. Halliwell.
lucency: The quality of being lucent.
lucent: Shining; bright; resplendent. " The sun's lucent orb." Milton.
lucern: A leguminous plant (Medicago sativa), having bluish purplecloverlike flowers, cultivated for fodder; -- called also alfalfa.[Written also lucerne.]
lucernal: Of or pertaining to a lamp. Lucernal microscope, a form of themicroscope in which the object is illuminated by means of a lamp, andits image is thrown upon a plate of ground glass connected with theinstrument, or on a screen independent of it.
lucernaria: A genus of acalephs, having a bell-shaped body with eightgroups of short tentacles around the margin. It attaches itself by asucker at the base of the pedicel.
lucernarian: Of or pertaining to the Lucernarida.-- n.
lucerne: See Lucern, the plant.
lucidity: The quality or state of being lucid.
lucidly: In a lucid manner.
lucidness: The quality of being lucid; lucidity.
lucifer: A genus of free-swimming macruran Crustacea, having a slenderbody and long appendages.
luciferian: One of the followers of Lucifer, bishop of Cagliari, in thefourth century, who separated from the orthodox churches because theywould not go as far as he did in opposing the Arians.
luciferous: Giving light; affording light or means of discovery. Boyle.
luciferously: In a luciferous manner.
lucific: Producing light. Grew.
luciform: Having, in some respects, the nature of light; resemblinglight. Berkeley.
lucifrian: Luciferian; satanic. [Obs.] Marston.
lucimeter: an instrument for measuring the intensity of light; aphotometer.
luck: That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill,affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; acourse or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance;chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristicfortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used forgood luck; as, luck is better than skill.If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and ofthat natural luck, He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Shak.Luck penny, a small sum given back for luck to one who pays money.[Prov. Eng.] -- To be is luck, to receive some good, or to meet withsome success, in an unexpected manner, or as the result ofcircumstances beyond one's control; to be fortunate.
luckily: In a lucky manner; by good fortune; fortunately; -- used in agood sense; as, they luckily escaped injury.
luckless: Being without luck; unpropitious; unfortunate; unlucky; meetingwith ill success or bad fortune; as, a luckless gamester; a lucklessmaid.Prayers made and granted in a luckless hour. Dryden.-- Luck"less*ly, adv.-- Lock"less*ness, n.
lucky proach: See Fatherlasher.
lucratively: In a lucrative manner.
lucre: Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an illsense.The lust of lucre and the dread of death. Pope.
lucriferous: Gainful; profitable. [Obs.] Boyle.
lucrific: Producing profit; gainful. [Obs.]
luctation: Effort to overcome in contest; struggle; endeavor. [R.]Farindon.
luctual: Producing grief; saddening. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.
lucubrate: To study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night.
lucubrator: One who studies by night; also, one who produces lucubrations.
lucubratory: Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to nightstudies; laborious or painstaking. Pope.
lucule: A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surroundingsurface.
luculently: In a luculent manner; clearly.
lucullite: A variety of black limestone, often polished for ornamentalpurposes.
lucuma: An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and ediblefruits.
luddite: One of a number of riotous persons in England, who for sixyears (1811-17) tried to prevent the use of labor-saving machinery bybreaking it, burning factories, etc.; -- so called from Ned Lud, ahalf-witted man who some years previously had broken stocking frames.J. & H. Smith. H. Martineau.
ludibrious: Sportive; ridiculous; wanton. [Obs.] Tooker.
ludibund: Sportive. [Obs.] -- Lu"di*bund*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ludicrous: Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt;sportive. Broome.A chapter upon German rhetoric would be in the same ludicrouspredicament as Van Troil's chapter on the snakes of Iceland, whichdelivers its business in one summary sentence, announcing, thatsnakes in Iceland -- there are none. De Quincey.
ludification: The act of deriding.
ludificatory: Making sport; tending to excite derision. [Obs.]
ludlamite: A mineral occurring in small, green, transparent, monocliniccrystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.
ludlow group: A subdivision of the British Upper Silurian lying below the OldRed Sandstone; -- so named from the Ludlow, in Western England. Seethe Chart of Geology.
ludwigite: A borate of iron and magnesia, occurring in fibrous masses of ablackish green color.
lues: Disease, especially of a contagious kind. Lues venerea,syphilis; -- called also simply lues.
luff: To turn the head of a vessel toward the wind; to sail nearerthe wind; to turn the tiller so as to make the vessel sail nearer thewind. To luff round, or To luff alee, to make the extreme of thismovement, for the purpose of throwing the ship's head into the wind.
luffer: See Louver.
lug: A projecting piece to which anything, as a rod, is attached, oragainst which anything, as a wedge or key, bears, or through which abolt passes, etc.
luggage: That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to becarried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or theircontents.I am gathering up my luggage, and preparing for my journey. Swift.What do you mean, To dote thus on such luggage! Shak.
lugger: A small vessel having two or three masts, and a runningbowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix.Totten.
lugmark: A mark cut into the ear of an animal to identify it; anearmark.
lugsail: A square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the mastand is raised or lowered with the sail. Totten.
lugubrious: Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly;doleful; woful; pitiable; as, a whining tone and a lugubrious look.Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrious emblems ofmortality. Hawthorne.-- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ly, adv.-- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ness, n.
lugworm: A large marine annelid (Arenicola marina) having a row oftufted gills along each side of the back. It is found burrowing insandy beaches, both in America and Europe, and is used for bait byEuropean fishermen. Called also lobworm, and baitworm.
luke: Moderately warm; not hot; tepid.-- Luke"ness, n. [Obs.]Nine penn'orth o'brandy and water luke. Dickens.
lukewarm: Moderately warm; neither cold nor hot; tepid; not ardent; notzealous; cool; indifferent. " Lukewarm blood." Spenser. " Lukewarmpatriots." Addison.An obedience so lukewarm and languishing that it merits not the nameof passion. Dryden.-- Luce"warm`ly, adv.-- Luce"warm`ness, n.
lull: To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm;to soothe; to quiet. " To lull him soft asleep." Spenser.Such sweet compulsion doth in music lie, To lull the daughters ofnecessity. Milton.
luller: One who, or that which, lulls.
lullingly: In a lulling manner; soothingly.
lum: A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, whichreflect a beautiful play of colors. It is also called fire marble,from its fiery reflections.
lumbaginous: Of or pertaining to lumbago.
lumbago: A rheumatic pain in the loins and the small of the back.
lumber: To make a sound as if moving heavily or clumsily; to rumble.Cowper.
lumber state: Maine; -- a nickname.
lumberer: One employed in lumbering, cutting, and getting logs from theforest for lumber; a lumberman. [U.S.]Lumberers have a notion that he (the woodpecker) is harmful totimber. Lowell.
lumbering: The business of cutting or getting timber or logs from theforest for lumber. [U.S.]
lumberman: One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment.[U.S.]
lumbosacral: Of or pertaining to the loins and sacrum; as, the lumbosacralnerve, a branch of one of the lumber nerves which passes over thesacrum.
lumbric: An earthworm, or a worm resembling an earthworm.
lumbrical: Resembling a worm; as, the lumbrical muscles of the hands ofthe hands and feet.-- n.
lumbriciform: Resembling an earthworm; vermiform.
lumbricoid: Like an earthworm; belonging to the genus Lumbricus, or familyLumbricidæ.
lumbricus: A genus of annelids, belonging to the Oligochæta, and includingthe common earthworms. See Earthworm.
luminant: Luminous. [R.]
luminate: To illuminate. [Obs.]
lumination: Illumination. [Obs.]
lumine: To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser.
luminescent: Shining with a light due to any of the various causes whichproduce luminescence.
luminiferous: Producing light; yielding light; transmitting light; as, theluminiferous ether.
luminosity: The quality or state of being luminous; luminousness.
lummox: A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler. [Law.]
lump: A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel. In thelump, In a lump, the whole together; in gross.They may buy them in the lump. Addison.-- Lump coal, coal in large lumps; -- the largest size brought fromthe mine.-- Lump sum, a gross sum without a specification of items; as, toaward a lump sum in satisfaction of all claims and damages.
lumper: The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen.
lumpfish: A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) ofEurope and America. The color is usually translucent sea green,sometimes purplish. It has a dorsal row of spiny tubercles, and threerows on each side, but has no scales. The ventral fins unite and forma ventral sucker for adhesion to stones and seaweeds. Called alsolumpsucker, cock-paddle, sea owl.
lumping: Bulky; heavy. Arbuthnot.
lumpish: Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless. " Lumpish,heavy, melancholy." Shak.-- Lump"ish*ly, adv.-- Lump"ish*ness, n.
lumpsucker: The lumprish.
lumpy: Full of lumps, or small compact masses.
lumpy-jaw: Actinomycosis. [Colloq.]
luna: Silver. Luna cornea (Old Chem.), horn silver, or fused silverchloride, a tough, brown, translucent mass; -- so called from itsresemblance to horn. Luna moth (Zoöl.), a very large and beautifulAmerican moth (Actias luna). Its wings are delicate light green, witha stripe of purple along the front edge of the anterior wings, theother margins being edged with pale yellow. Each wing has a lunatespot surrounded by rings of light yellow, blue, and black. Thecaterpillar commonly feeds on the hickory, sassafras, and maple.
lunar: A lunar distance.
lunarian: An inhabitant of the moon.
lunary: Lunar. [Obs.] Fuller.
lunatic: A person affected by lunacy; an insane person, esp. one who haslucid intervals; a madman; a person of unsound mind.The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact.Shak.
lunation: The period of a synodic revolution of the moon, or the timefrom one new moon to the next; varying in length, at different times,from about 29
lunch: A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast anddinner.
luncheon: To take luncheon. Beaconsfield.
lune: A figure in the form of a crescent, bounded by two intersectingarcs of circles.
lunet: A little moon or satellite. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
lunette: A fieldwork consisting of two faces, forming a salient angle,and two parallel flanks. See Bastion.
lung: An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.My lungs began to crow like chanticleer. Shak.
lung-grown: Having lungs that adhere to the pleura.
lunge: A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword.
lunged: Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs.
lungfish: Any fish belonging to the Dipnoi; -- so called because theyhave both lungs and gills.
lungie: A guillemot. [Written also longie.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
lungis: A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow. [Obs.]
lungless: Being without lungs.
lungoor: A long-tailed monkey (Semnopithecus schislaceus), from themountainous districts of India.
lungworm: Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms whichinfest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and otheranimals, often proving fatal. The lungworm of cattle (Strongylusmicrurus) and that of sheep (S. filaria) are the best known.
lunicurrent: Having relation to changes in currents that depend on themoon's phases. Bache.
luniform: Resembling the moon in shape.
lunisolar: Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutualrelations, of the sun and moon. Lunisolar precession (Astron.), thatportion of the annual precession of the equinoxes which depends onthe joint action of the sun and moon.-- Lunisolar year, a period of time, at the end of which, in theJulian calendar, the new and full moons and the eclipses recur on thesame days of the week and month and year as in the previous period.It consists of 532 common years, being the least common multiple ofthe numbers of years in the cycle of the sun and the cycle of themoon.
lunistice: The farthest point of the moon's northing and southing, in itsmonthly revolution. [Obs.]
lunitidal: Pertaining to tidal movements dependent on the moon. Bache.Lunitidal interval. See Retard, n.
lunula: Same as Lunule.
lunular: Having a form like that of the new moon; shaped like acrescent.
lunule: Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; alunula, a lune.
lunulet: A small spot, shaped like a half-moon or crescent; as, thelunulet on the wings of many insects.
lunulite: Any bryozoan of the genus Lunulites, having a more or lesscircular form.
luny: Crazy; mentally unsound. [Written also loony.] [Law, U.S.]
lupercal: Of or pertaining to the Lupercalia.
lupercalia: A feast of the Romans in honor of Lupercus, or Pan.
lupine: A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus,the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. Thecommon species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There aremany species in California.
lupinin: A glucoside found in the seeds of several species of lupine,and extracted as a yellowish white crystalline substance.
lupinine: An alkaloid found in several species of lupine (Lupinus luteus,L. albus, etc.), and extracted as a bitter crystalline substance.
lupulin: A bitter principle extracted from hops.
lupuline: An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid.
lupulinic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, hops; specifically,designating an acid obtained by the decomposition of lupulin.
lupus: A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.
lurcation: Gluttony; gormandizing. [Obs.]
lurch: To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up.[Obs.]Too far off from great cities, which may hinder business; too nearthem, which lurcheth all provisions, and maketh everything dear.Bacon.
lurcher: One of a mongrel breed of dogs said to have been a crossbetween the sheep dog, greyhound, and spaniel. It hunts gamesilently, by scent, and is often used by poachers.
lurchline: The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as toinclose the birds.
lurdan: Stupid; blockish. [Obs.]
lure: A velvet smoothing brush. Knight.
lurg: A large marine annelid (Nephthys cæca), inhabiting the sandyshores of Europe and America. It is whitish, with a pearly luster,and grows to the length of eight or ten inches.
lurid: Having a brown color tonged with red, as of flame seen throughsmoke.
lurry: A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as ofsounds. [Obs.]To turn prayer into a kind of lurry. Milton.
lusern: A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier.
lush: Full of juice or succulence. Tennyson.How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green! Shak.
lushburg: See Lussheburgh. [Obs.]
lusitanian: Pertaining to Lusitania, the ancient name of the region almostcoinciding with Portugal.-- n.
lusk: Lazy; slothful. [Obs.]
luskish: Inclined to be lazy. Marston.-- Lusk"*ish*ly, adv. -Lusk"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser.
lussheburgh: A spurious coin of light weight imported into England fromLuxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called. [Obs.]God wot, no Lussheburghes payen ye. Chaucer.
luster: One who lusts.
lustering: Destitute of luster; dim; dull.
lustic: Lusty; vigorous. [Obs.]
lustihead: See Lustihood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lustihood: State of being lusty; vigor of body. " Full of lustihood."Tennyson.
lustily: In a lusty or vigorous manner.
lustiness: State of being lusty; vigor; strength.
lustrate: To make clear or pure by means of a propitiatory offering; topurify.We must purge, and cleanse, and lustrate the whole city. Hammond.
lustration: A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, orpeople, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness,were purified.
lustre: Same as Luster.
lustrical: Pertaining to, or used for, purification.
lustring: A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring.
lustrous: Bright; shining; luminous. " Good sparks and lustrous." Shak.-- Lus"trous*ly, adv.
lustrum: A lustration or purification, especially the purification ofthe whole Roman people, which was made by the censors once in fiveyears. Hence
lustwort: See Sundew.
lusus naturae: Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production.
lutanist: A person that plays on the lute. Johnson.
lutarious: Of, pertaining to, or like, mud; living in mud. [Obs.] Grew.
lutation: The act or method of luting vessels.
lute: A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance forsealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, orfor coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; --called also luting.
lute-backed: Having a curved spine.
lutecium: A metallic element separated from ytterbium in 1907, by Urbainin Paris and by von Welsbach in Vienna. Symbol, Lu; at. wt. 174.0.
lutein: A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted fromthe yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum.
lutenist: Same as Lutanist.
luteo-: A combining form signifying orange yellow or brownish yellow.
luteocobaltic: Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of cobalthaving a yellow color. Cf. Cobaltic. Luteocobaltic chloride (Chem.),a brilliant reddish yellow crystalline compound, Co2Cl6(NH3)12,obtained by the action of ammonium chloride on an ammoniacal solutionof cobaltic chloride.
luteolin: A yellow dyestuff obtained from the foliage of the dyer's broom(Reseda luteola).
luteous: Yellowish; more or less like buff.
luter: One who plays on a lute.
lutescent: Of a yellowish color.
lutestring: A plain, stout, lustrous silk, used for ladies' dresses and forribbon. Goldsmith.
luth: The leatherback.
lutheran: Of or pertaining to Luther; adhering to the doctrines of Lutheror the Lutheran Church.
luthern: A dormer window. See Dormer.
lutidine: Any one of several metameric alkaloids, C5H3N.(CH3)2, of thepyridine series, obtained from bone oil as liquids, and havingpeculiar pungent odors. These alkaloids are also called respectivelydimethyl pyridine, ethyl pyridine, etc.
luting: See Lute, a cement.
lutist: One who plays on a lute.
lutose: Covered with clay; miry.
lutulence: The state or quality of being lutulent.
lutulent: Muddy; turbid; thick. [Obs.]
luwack: See Paradoxure.
lux: To put out of joint; to luxate. [Obs.]
luxate: Luxated. [Obs.]
luxation: The act of luxating, or the state of being luxated; adislocation.
luxe: Luxury. [Obs.] Shenstone. Édition de luxe (. Etym
luxive: Given to luxury; voluptuous. [Obs.]
luxullianite: A kind of granite from Luxullian, Cornwall, characterized bythe presence of radiating groups of minute tourmaline crystals.
luxuriance: The state or quality of being luxuriant; rank, vigorous growth;excessive abundance produced by rank growth. "Tropical luxuriance."B. Taylor.
luxuriancy: The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance.Flowers grow up in the garden in the greatest luxuriancy andprofusion. Spectator.
luxuriant: Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, aluxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage.Prune the luxuriant, the uncouth refine. Pope.Luxuriant flower (Bot.), one in which the floral envelopes areoverdeveloped at the expense of the essential organs.
luxuriantly: In a luxuriant manner.
luxuriation: The act or process luxuriating.
luxuriety: Luxuriance. [Obs.]
luxurious: Of or pertaining to luxury; ministering to luxury; suppliedwith the conditions of luxury; as, a luxurious life; a luxurioustable; luxurious ease. " Luxurious cities. " Milton.-- Lux*u"ri*ous*ly, adv.-- Lux*u"ri*ous*ness, n.
luxurist: One given to luxury. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.
luz: A bone of the human body which was supposed by certainRabbinical writers to be indestructible. Its location was a matter ofdispute. Brande & C.
lyam: A leash. [Obs.]
lycanthropia: See Lycanthropy, 2.
lycanthropic: Pertaining to lycanthropy.
lycanthropist: One affected by the disease lycanthropy.
lycanthropous: Lycanthropic.
lycanthropy: A kind of erratic melancholy, in which the patient imagineshimself a wolf, and imitates the actions of that animal.
lycee: A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the Frenchgovernment, for preparing students for the university.
lych gate: . See under Lich.
lyche: Like. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lychee: See Litchi.
lychnis: A genus of Old World plants belonging to the Pink family(Caryophyllaceæ). Most of the species have brilliantly coloredflowers and cottony leaves, which may have anciently answered aswicks for lamps. The botanical name is in common use for the gardenspecies. The corn cockle (Lychnis Githago) is a common weed in wheatfields.
lychnobite: One who labors at night and sleeps in the day.
lychnoscope: Same as Low side window, under Low, a.
lycine: A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because foundin the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine.
lycoperdon: A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores,forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant iscompressed or burst; puffball.
lycopod: A plant of the genus Lycopodium.
lycopode: Same as Lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium.
lycopodiaceous: Belonging, or relating, to the Lycopodiaceæ, an order ofcryptogamous plants (called also club mosses) with branching stems,and small, crowded, one-nerved, and usually pointed leaves.
lycopodite: An old name for a fossil club moss.
lycopodium: A genus of mosslike plants, the type of the order Lycopodiaceæ;club moss. Lycopodium powder, a fine powder or dust composed of thespores of Lycopodium, and other plants of the order Lycopodiaceæ. Itis highly inflammable, and is sometimes used in the manufacture offireworks, and the artificial representation of lightning.
lycotropous: Campylotropous.
lyddite: A high explosive consisting principally of picric acid, used asa shell explosive in the British service; -- so named from theproving grounds at Lydd, England.
lyden: See Leden. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lydian: Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to itsinhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one ofthe ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft,pathetic, or voluptuous character.Softly sweet in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul topleasures. Dryden.Lydian stone, a flint slate used by the ancients to try gold andsilver; a touchstone. See Basanite.
lydine: A violet dye derived from aniline.
lye: A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtainedby leaching wood ashes. It is much used in making soap, etc.
lyencephala: A group of Mammalia, including the marsupials and monotremes; -- so called because the corpus callosum is rudimentary.
lyencephalous: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Lyencephala.
lyerman: The cicada.
lygodium: A genus of ferns with twining or climbing fronds, bearingstalked and variously-lobed divisions in pairs.
lying: of Lie, to tell a falsehood.
lyingly: In a lying manner; falsely.
lyken: To please; -- chiefly used impersonally. [Obs.] " Sith itlyketh you." Chaucer.
lymail: See Limaille. [Obs.] Chaucer.
lyme grass: A coarse perennial grass of several species of Elymus, esp. E.Canadensis, and the European E. arenarius.
lymph: An alkaline colorless fluid, contained in the lymphaticvessels, coagulable like blood, but free from red blood corpuscles.It is absorbed from the various tissues and organs of the body, andis finally discharged by the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts intothe great veins near the heart.
lymph node: A lymphatic gland.
lymphadenitis: Inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis.
lymphadenoma: See Lymphoma.
lymphangeitis: Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. [Written alsolymphangitis.]
lymphangial: Of or pertaining to the lymphatics, or lymphoid tissue;lymphatic.
lymphatic: pertaining to, containing, or conveying lymph.
lymphitis: See Lymphadenitis.
lymphogenic: Connected with, or formed in, the lymphatic glands.
lymphography: A description of the lymphatic vessels, their origin and uses.
lymphoid: Resembling lymph; also, resembling a lymphatic gland; adenoid;as, lymphoid tissue.
lymphoma: A tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphaticgland; -- called also lymphadenoma. Malignant lymphoma, a fataldisease characterized by the formation in various parts of the bodyof new growths resembling lymphatic glands in structure.
lymphy: Containing, or like, lymph.
lyn: A waterfall. See Lin. [Scot.]
lyncean: Of or pertaining to the lynx.
lynch: To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the formsof law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. SeeLynch law.
lynch law: . The act or practice by private persons of inflictingpunishment for crimes or offenses, without due process of law.
lyncher: One who assists in lynching.
lyne: Linen. [Obs.] Spenser.
lynx: Any one of several species of feline animals of the genusFelis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually apencil of hair on the tip of the ears.
lynx-eyed: Having acute sight.
lyonnaise: Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated inoil or butter. They are usually flavored with onion and parsley.
lyopomata: An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are notarticulated by a hinge. It includes the Lingula, Discina, and alliedforms. [Written also Lyopoma.]
lyra: A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star ofthe first magnitude, called Alpha Lyræ, or Vega.
lyraid: Same as Lyrid.
lyre: A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by theancients, as an accompaniment to poetry.
lyre bird: Any one of two or three species of Australian birds of thegenus Menura. The male is remarkable for having the sixteen tailfeathers very long and, when spread, arranged in the form of a lyre.The common lyre bird (Menura superba), inhabiting New South Wales, isabout the size of a grouse. Its general color is brown, with rufouscolor on the throat, wings, tail coverts and tail. Called also lyrepheasant and lyre-tail.
lyric: The words of a song.
lyrically: In a lyrical manner.
lyricism: A lyric composition. Gray.
lyrid: One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air incertain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because theapparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wardscrosses the constellation Lyra.
lyrie: A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the bodycovered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in frontof the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, andarmed bullhead.
lyriferous: Having a lyre-shaped shoulder girdle, as certain fishes.
lyrism: The act of playing on a lyre or harp. G. Eliot.
lyrist: A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyricalpoetry. Shelley.
lysimeter: An instrument for measuring the water that percolates through acertain depth of soil. Knight.
lysis: The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming ongradually and not marked by abrupt change.
lyssa: Hydrophobia.
lyterian: Termination a disease; indicating the end of a disease.
lythe: The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet. [Scot.]
lytta: A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axisof the tongue in many mammals, as the dog.
ma: But; -- used in cautionary phrases; as, "Vivace, ma non troppopresto" (i. e., lively, but not too quick). Moore (Encyc. of Music).
maa: The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. SeeNew, a gull.
maad: Made.  Chaucer.
maalin: Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often usedin direct address, and sometimes as an appellation.
maara shell: A large, pearly, spiral, marine shell (Turbo margaritaceus),from the Pacific Islands. It is used as an ornament.
maasha: An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of arupee.
maat: Dejected; sorrowful; downcast. [Obs.] "So piteous and so maat."Chaucer.
mabble: To wrap up. [Obs.]
mabby: A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- usedin the Barbadoes.
mabolo: A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from thePhilippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies. Itbears an edible fruit as large as a quince.
mac: A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son.
macaco: Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur(Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta).
macacus: A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies. Theyhave short tails and prominent eyebrows.
macadam road: A macadamized road.
macadamization: The process or act of macadamizing.
macadamize: To cover, as a road, or street, with small, broken stones, soas to form a smooth, hard, convex surface.
macao: A macaw.
macaque: Any one of several species of short-tailed monkeys of the genusMacacus; as, M. maurus, the moor macaque of the East Indies.
macaranga gum: A gum of a crimson color, obtained from a tree (MacarangaIndica) that grows in the East Indies. It is used in takingimpressions of coins, medallions, etc., and sometimes as a medicine.Balfour (Cyc. of India).
macarize: To congratulate. [Oxford Univ. Cant]  Whately.
macartney: A fire-backed pheasant. See Fireback.
macassar oil: A kind of oil formerly used in dressing the hair; -- so calledbecause originally obtained from Macassar, a district of the Islandof Celebes. Also, an imitation of the same, of perfumed castor oiland olive oil.
macauco: Any one of several species of small lemurs, as Lemur murinus,which resembles a rat in size.
macavahu: A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called alsocollared teetee.
macaw: Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteenspecies are known, all of them American. They are large and have avery long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around theeyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and stronglycontrasted.
maccabean: Of or pertaining to Judas Maccabeus or to the Maccabees; as,the Maccabean princes; Maccabean times.
maccabees: A kind of snuff.
macco: A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century. Thackeray.
mace: A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also,a weight of 57.98 grains. S. W. Williams.
macedoine: A kind of mixed dish, as of cooked vegetables with white sauce,sweet jelly with whole fruit, etc. Also, fig., a medley.
macedonian: Belonging, or relating, to Macedonia.-- n.
macedonianism: The doctrines of Macedonius.
macer: A mace bearer; an officer of a court. P. Plowman.
macerater: One who, or that which, macerates; an apparatus for convertingpaper or fibrous matter into pulp.
maceration: The act or process of macerating.
machete: A large heavy knife resembling a broadsword, often two or threefeet in length, -- used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as ahatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various otherpurposes. J. Stevens.
machiavelian: Of or pertaining to Machiavel, or to his supposed principles;politically cunning; characterized by duplicity or bad faith; crafty.
machicolated: Having machicolations. "Machicolated turrets." C. Kingsley.
machicolation: An opening between the corbels which support a projectingparapet, or in the floor of a gallery or the roof of a portal,shooting or dropping missiles upen assailants attacking the base ofthe walls. Also, the construction of such defenses, in general, whenof this character. See Illusts. of Battlement and Castle.
machicoulis: Same as Machicolation.
machinal: Of or pertaining to machines.
machinate: To plan; to contrive; esp., to form a scheme with the purposeof doing harm; to contrive artfully; to plot. "How long will youmachinate!" Sandys.
machinator: One who machinates, or forms a scheme with evil designs; aplotter or artful schemer. Glanvill. Sir W. Scott.
machine: To subject to the action of machinery; to effect by aid ofmachinery; to print with a printing machine.
machiner: One who or operates a machine; a machinist. [R.]
machining: Of or pertaining to the machinery of a poem; acting or used asa machine.[Obs.] Dryden.
macho: The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, orMexicanus).
macilency: Leanness.[Obs.] Sandys.
macilent: Lean; thin. [Obs.] Bailey.
macintosh: Same as Mackintosh.
mackerel: A pimp; also, a bawd. [Obs.] Halliwell.
mackinaw boat: A flat-bottomed boat with a pointed prow and square stern,using oars or sails or both, used esp. on the upper Great Lakes andtheir tributaries.
mackinaw coat: A short, heavy, double-breasted plaid coat, the design of whichis large and striking. [Local, U. S.]
mackinaw trout: The namaycush.
mackintosh: A waterproof outer garment; -- so called from the name of theinventor.
mackle: Same Macule.
maclurea: A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size,characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks.
maclurin: See Morintannic.
macrame lace: A coarse lace made of twine, used especially in decoratingfurniture.
macro-: A combining form signifying long, large, great; asmacrodiagonal, macrospore.
macro-chemistry: The science which treats of the chemical properties, actions orrelations of substances in quantity; -- distinguished from micro-chemistry.
macrobiotic: Long-lived. Dunglison.
macrobiotics: The art of prolonging life.
macrocephalous: Having the cotyledons of a dicotyledonous embryo confluent, andforming a large mass compared with the rest of the body. Henslow.
macrochires: A division of birds including the swifts and humming birds. Socalled from the length of the distal part of the wing.
macrocosm: The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior toman; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man. See Microcosm.
macrocosmic: Of or pertaining to the macrocosm. Tylor.
macrocystis: An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystispyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels.
macrodactyl: One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very longtoes. [Written also macrodactyle.]
macrodiagonal: The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. SeeCrystallization.
macrodome: A dome parallel to the longer lateral axis of an orthorhombiccrystal. See Dome, n., 4.
macrodont: Having large teeth.-- n.
macrofarad: See Megafarad. [R.]
macroglossia: Enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue.
macrognathic: Long-jawed. Huxley.
macrograph: A picture of an object as seen by the naked eye (that is,unmagnified); as, a macrograph of a metallic fracture.
macrography: Examination or study with the naked eye, as distinguished frommicrography.
macrology: Long and tedious talk without much substance; superfluity ofwords.
macrometer: An instrument for determining the size or distance ofinaccessible objects by means of two reflectors on a common sextant.
macron: A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels todenote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, indame; e, in seam, etc.
macropetalous: Having long or large petals.
macrophyllous: Having long or large leaves.
macropinacoid: One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which areparallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes.
macropod: Any one of a group of maioid crabs remarkable for the length oftheir legs; -- called also spider crab.
macropodal: Having long or large feet, or a long stem.
macropodian: A macropod.
macropodous: Having long legs or feet.
macroprism: A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoidand the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are calledmacropyramids.
macropteres: A division of birds; the Longipennes.
macropterous: Having long wings.
macropus: genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo.
macropyramid: See Macroprism.
macrosporangium: A sporangium or conceptacle containing only large spores; --opposed to microsporangium. Both are found in the genera Selaginella,Isoctes, and Marsilia, plants remotely allied to ferns.
macrospore: One of the specially large spores of certain flowerless plants,as Selaginella, etc.
macrosporic: Of or pertaining to macrospores.
macrotone: Same as Macron.
macrotous: Large-eared.
macrura: A subdivision of decapod Crustacea, having the abdomen largelydeveloped. It includes the lobster, prawn, shrimp, and many similarforms. Cf. Decapoda.
macrural: Same as Macrurous.
macruran: One of the Macrura.
macruroid: Like or pertaining to the Macrura.
macrurous: Of or pertaining to the Macrura; having a long tail.
mactation: The act of killing a victim for sacrifice. [Obs.]
mactra: Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and alliedgenera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, asMactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf.
macula: A rather large spot or blotch of color.
maculate: To spot; to stain; to blur.Maculate the honor of their people. Sir T. Elyot.
maculated: Having spots or blotches; maculate.
maculation: The act of spotting; a spot; a blemish. Shak.
maculatory: Causing a spot or stain. T. Adams.
maculature: , Blotting paper. [Obs.]
macule: A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when thepaper slips a little; a mackle.
maculose: Of or pertaining to spots upon a surface; spotted; maculate.
mad: of Made. Chaucer.
mad-apple: See Eggplant.
mad-headed: Wild; crack-brained.
madam: A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of addressgiven to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- muchused in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. Thecorresponding word in addressing a man is Sir.
madame: My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality;now, in France, given to all married women. Chaucer.
madbrain: Hot-headed; rash. Shak.-- n.
madbrained: Disordered in mind; hot-headed. Shak.
madcap: lord." Shak.
madden: To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violentlywith passion; to make very angry; to enrage.
madder: A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum). The root is much used indyeing red, and formerly was used in medicine. It is cultivated inFrance and Holland. See Rubiaceous.
madderwort: A name proposed for any plant of the same natural order(Rubiaceæ) as the madder.
madding: Affected with madness; raging; furious.-- Mad"ding*ly, adv. [Archaic]Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife. Gray.The madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged. Milton.
maddish: Somewhat mad. Beau. & Fl.
made: See Mad, n.
madecassee: Of or pertaining to Madagascar or its inhabitants.
madefy: To make wet or moist. [R.]
madegassy: See Madecassee.
madeira: A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira.A cup of Madeira, and a cold capon's leg. Shak.Madeira nut (Bot.), the European walnut; the nut of the Juglansregia.
madeira vine: A herbaceous climbing vine (Boussingaultia baselloides) verypopular in cultivation, having shining entire leaves and racemes ofsmall fragrant white flowers.
mademoiselle: A marine food fish (Sciæna chrysura), of the Southern UnitedStates; -- called also yellowtail, and silver perch.
madhouse: A house where insane persons are confined; an insane asylum; abedlam.
madia: A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madiasativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure.This oil is sometimes used instead of olive oil for the table.
madid: Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. [R.] Beaconsfield.
madisterium: An instrument to extract hairs.
madjoun: An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by theTurks and Hindoos. [Written also majoun.]
madly: In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly.
madman: A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person.When a man mistakes his thoughts for person and things, he is mad. Amadman is properly so defined. Coleridge.
madnep: The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium).
madonna: A picture of the Virgin Mary (usually with the babe).The Italian painters are noted for drawing the Madonnas by their ownwives or mistresses. Rymer.
madoqua: A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about thesize of a hare.
madrague: A large fish pound used for the capture of the tunny in theMediterranean; also applied to the seines used for the same purpose.
madras: A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors,such as those often used by negroes for turbans.
madreperl: Mother-of-pearl.
madrepora: A genus of reef corals abundant in tropical seas. It includesthan one hundred and fifty species, most of which are elegantlybranched.-- Mad`re*po"ral, a.
madreporaria: An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of thespecies that produce stony corals. See Illust. of Anthozoa.-- Mad`re*po*ra"ri*an, a. & n.
madrepore: Any coral of the genus Madrepora; formerly, often applied toany stony coral.
madreporiform: Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure.
madreporite: A fossil coral.
madrier: A thick plank, used for several mechanical purposes;especially:(a) A plank to receive the mouth of a petard, with which it isapplied to anything intended to be broken down.(b) A plank or beam used for supporting the earth in mines orfortifications.
madrigal: An unaccompanied polyphonic song, in four, five, or more parts,set to secular words, but full of counterpoint and imitation, andadhering to the old church modes. Unlike the freer glee, it is bestsung with several voices on a part. See Glee.
madrigaler: A madrigalist.
madrigalist: A composer of madrigals.
madrilenian: Of or pertaining to Madrid in Spain, or to its inhabitants.-- n.
madrina: An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting asthe leader of a troop of pack mules. [S. America]
madro: A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), ofCalifornia, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and ediblered berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written alsomadroño.]
madwort: A genus of cruciferous plants (Alyssum) with white or yellowflowers and rounded pods. A. maritimum is the commonly cultivatedsweet alyssum, a fragrant white-flowered annual.
maestoso: Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passageor piece of music in a dignified manner.
maestricht monitor: The Mosasaurus Hofmanni. See Mosasaurus.
maestro: A master in any art, especially in music; a composer.
maffle: To stammer. [Obs.]
maffler: A stammerer. [Obs.]
magazine: To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.
magazine camera: A camera in which a number of plates can be exposed withoutreloading.
magaziner: One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.] Goldsmith.
magazining: The act of editing, or writing for, a magazine. [Colloq.]Byron.
magazinist: One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.]
magbote: See Mægbote.
magdala: Designating an orange-red dyestuff obtained from naphthylamine,and called magdala red, naphthalene red, etc.
magdalen: A reformed prostitute.
magdaleon: A medicine in the form of a roll, a esp. a roll of plaster.
magdeburg: A city of Saxony. Magdeburg centuries, Magdeburg hemispheres.See under Century, and Hemisphere.
mage: A magician. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.
magellanic: Of or pertaining to, or named from, Magellan, the navigator.Magellenic clouds (Astron.), three conspicuous nebulæ near the southpole, resembling thin white clouds.
magenta: An aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having agreen bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also,the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy, in allusion to thebattle fought there about the time the dye was discovered. Calledalso fuchsine, roseïne, etc.
magged: Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
maggiore: Greater, in respect to scales, intervals, etc., when used inopposition to minor; major. Moore (Encyc. of Music).
maggot: The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.
maggot-pie: A magpie. [Obs.] Shak.
maggotiness: State of being maggoty.
maggotish: Full of whims or fancies; maggoty.
maghet: A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds.
magi: A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among theancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East.The inspired Magi from the Orient came. Sandys.
magian: Of or pertaining to the Magi.
magic: A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claimto produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, ordeparted spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attainedby a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration,witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc.An appearance made by some magic. Chaucer.Celestial magic, a supposed supernatural power which gave to spiritsa kind of dominion over the planets, and to the planets an influenceover men.-- Natural magic, the art of employing the powers of nature toproduce effects apparently supernatural.-- Superstitious, or Geotic, magic, the invocation of devils ordemons, involving the supposition of some tacit or express agreementbetween them and human beings.
magically: In a magical manner; by magic, or as if by magic.
magician: One skilled in magic; one who practices the black art; anenchanter; a necromancer; a sorcerer or sorceress; a conjurer.
magister: Master; sir; -- a title of the Middle Ages, given to a personin authority, or to one having a license from a university to teachphilosophy and the liberal arts.
magisterial: Pertaining to, produced by, or of the nature of, magistery. SeeMagistery, 2.
magisteriality: Magisterialness; authoritativeness. [R.] Fuller.
magisterially: In a magisterial manner.
magisterialness: The quality or state of being magisterial.
magistery: A precipitate; a fine substance deposited by precipitation; --applied in old chemistry to certain white precipitates from metallicsolutions; as, magistery of bismuth. Ure.
magistral: Formulated extemporaneously, or for a special case; -- opposedto officinal, and said of prescriptions and medicines. Dunglison.Magistral line (Fort.), the guiding line, or outline, or outline, bywhich the form of the work is determined. It is usually the crestline of the parapet in fieldworks, or the top line of the escarp inpermanent fortifications.
magistrality: Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism. Bacon.
magistrally: In a magistral manner. Abp. Bramhall.
magistrate: A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a publiccivil officer invested with the executive government, or some branchof it. "All Christian rulers and magistrates." Book of Com. Prayer.Of magistrates some also are supreme, in whom the sovereign power ofthe state resides; others are subordinate. Blackstone.
magistrature: Magistracy. [Obs.]
magma: The amorphous or homogenous matrix or ground mass, asdistinguished from well-defined crystals; as, the magma of porphyry.
magnality: A great act or event; a great attainment. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
magnanimity: The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevationor dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, incharacter, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble withtranquility and firmness, to disdain injustice, meanness and revenge,and to act and sacrifice for noble objects.
magnanimously: In a magnanimous manner; with greatness of mind.
magnase black: A black pigment which dries rapidly when mixed with oil, and isof intense body. Fairholt.
magnes: Magnet. [Obs.] Spenser.
magnesia: A light earthy white substance, consisting of magnesium oxide,and obtained by heating magnesium hydrate or carbonate, or by burningmagnesium. It has a slightly alkaline reaction, and is used inmedicine as a mild antacid laxative. See Magnesium. Magnesia albaEtym
magnesian: Pertaining to, characterized by, or containing, magnesia ormagnesium. Magnesian limestone. (Min.) See Dolomite.
magnesic: Pertaining to, or containing, magnesium; as, magnesic oxide.
magnesite: Native magnesium carbonate occurring in white compact orgranular masses, and also in rhombohedral crystals.
magnesium: A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile,quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns,forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light(the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, inpyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant isrequired. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc,meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity,1.75. Magnesium sulphate. (Chem.) Same as Epsom salts.
magnet: A bar or mass of steel or iron to which the peculiar propertiesof the loadstone have been imparted; -- called, in distinction fromthe loadstone, an artificial magnet.
magnetically: By or as by, magnetism.
magneticalness: Quality of being magnetic.
magnetician: One versed in the science of magnetism; a magnetist.
magneticness: Magneticalness. [Obs.]
magnetics: The science of magnetism.
magnetiferous: Producing or conducting magnetism.
magnetism: The property, quality, or state, of being magnetic; themanifestation of the force in nature which is seen in a magnet.
magnetist: One versed in magnetism.
magnetite: An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, alsomassive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readilyattracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being thencalled loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magneticiron.
magnetizable: Capable of magnetized.
magnetization: The act of magnetizing, or the state of being magnetized.
magnetizee: A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism. [R.]
magnetizer: One who, or that which, imparts magnetism.
magneto-: A prefix meaning pertaining to, produced by, or in some wayconnected with, magnetism.
magneto-electricity: That branch of science which treats of the development ofelectricity by the action of magnets; -- the counterpart of electro-magnetism.
magnetograph: An automatic instrument for registering, by photography orotherwise, the states and variations of any of the terrestrialmagnetic elements.
magnetometer: An instrument for measuring the intensity of magnetic forces;also, less frequently, an instrument for determining any of theterrestrial magnetic elements, as the dip and declination.
magnetometric: Pertaining to, or employed in, the measurement of magneticforces; obtained by means of a magnetometer; as, magnetometricinstruments; magnetometric measurements.
magnetomotive: Pertaining to, or designating, a force producing magnetic flux,analogous to electromotive force, and equal to the magnetic fluxmultiplied by the magnetic reluctance.
magnetomotor: A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a greatquantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to theexhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena. [R.]
magnetotherapy: The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to thesurface of the body.
magnifiable: Such as can be magnified, or extolled.
magnificat: The song of the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 46; -- so called becauseit commences with this word in the Vulgate.
magnificate: To magnify or extol. [Obs.] Marston.
magnification: The act of magnifying; enlargement; exaggeration. [R.]
magnificence: The act of doing what magnificent; the state or quality ofbeing magnificent. Acts xix. 27. "Then cometh magnificence." Chaucer.And, for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The Maker's highmagnificence, who built so spacious. Milton.The noblest monuments of Roman magnificence. Eustace.
magnificently: In a Magnificent manner.
magnifier: One who, or that which, magnifies.
magniloquence: The quality of being magniloquent; pompous discourse;grandiloquence.
magniloquent: Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumidin style; grandiloquent.-- Mag*nil"o*quent*ly, adv.
magniloquous: Magniloquent. [Obs.]
magnitude: That which has one or more of the three dimensions, length,breadth, and thickness.
magnolia: A genus of American and Asiatic trees, with aromatic bark andlarge sweet-scented whitish or reddish flowers.
magnoliaceous: Pertaining to a natural order (Magnoliaceæ) of trees of whichthe magnolia, the tulip tree, and the star anise are examples.
magnum: A bone of the carpus at the base of the third metacarpal bone.
magot: The Barbary ape.
magot-pie: A magpie. [Obs.] Shak.
magpie: Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and relatedgenera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail.
maguari: A South American stork (Euxenara maguari), having a forkedtail.
maguey: The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana). SeeAgave.
magyar: One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; aHungarian.
maha: A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.
mahaled: (Bot.) A cherry tree (Prunus Mahaleb) of Southern Europe. Thewood is prized by cabinetmakers, the twigs are used for pipe stems,the flowers and leaves yield a perfume, and from the fruit a violetdye and a fermented liquor (like kirschwasser) are prepared.
maharajah: A sovereign prince in India; -- a title given also to otherpersons of high rank.
maharif: An African antelope (Hippotragus Bakeri). Its face is stripedwith black and white.
maharmah: A muslin wrapper for the head and the lower part of the face,worn by Turkish and Armenian women when they go abroad.
mahatma: One of a class of sages, or "adepts," reputed to have knowledgeand powers of a higher order than those of ordinary men. --Ma*hat"ma*ism (#), n.
mahdi: Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. TheSunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet toappear.
mahdiism: See Mahdism.
mahdism: Belief in the coming of the Mahdi; fanatical devotion to thecause of the Mahdi or a pretender to that title. -- Mah"dist (#), n.
mahl-stick: See Maul-stick.
mahoe: A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus,Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is usedfor strings and cordage.
mahogany: A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found intropical America.
maholi: A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears.[Written also moholi.]
mahometanism: See Mohammedanism.
mahometanize: To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize.
mahometism: See Mohammedanism.
mahometist: A Mohammedan. [R.]
mahometry: Mohammedanism. [Obs.]
mahon stock: An annual cruciferous plant with reddish purple or whiteflowers (Malcolmia maritima). It is called in England Virginia stock,but the plant comes from the Mediterranean.
mahone: A large Turkish ship. Crabb.
mahonia: The Oregon grape, a species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium),often cultivated for its hollylike foliage.
mahoohoo: The African white two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus simus).
mahori: One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands ofEastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively.
mahound: A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; adevil. [Obs.]Who's this, my mahound cousin Beau. & Fl.
mahout: The keeper and driver of an elephant. [East Indies]
mahovo: A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroadcar, by means of a heavy fly wheel.
mahrati: The language of the Mahrattas; the language spoken in theDeccan and Concan. [Written also Marathi.]
mahratta: One of a numerous people inhabiting the southwestern part ofIndia. Also, the language of the Mahrattas; Mahrati. It is closelyallied to Sanskrit.-- a.
mahwa tree: An East Indian sapotaceous tree (Bassia latifolia, and also B.butyracea), whose timber is used for wagon wheels, and the flowersfor food and in preparing an intoxicating drink. It is one of thebutter trees. The oil, known as mahwa and yallah, is obtained fromthe kernels of the fruit.
maian: Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadæ.
maid: The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raiabatis), and of the thornback (R. clavata). [Prov. Eng.] Fair maid.(Zoöl.) See under Fair, a.-- Maid of honor, a female attendant of a queen or royal princess; -- usually of noble family, and having to perform only nominal orhonorary duties.-- Old maid. See under Old.
maidan: In various parts of Asia, an open space, as for militaryexercises, or for a market place; an open grassy tract; an esplanade.
maiden: To act coyly like a maiden; -- with it as an indefinite object.For had I maiden'd it, as many use. Loath for to grant, but loatherto refuse. Bp. Hall.
maidenhair: A fern of the genus Adiantum (A. pedatum), having very slendergraceful stalks. It is common in the United States, and is sometimesused in medicine. The name is also applied to other species of thesame genus, as to the Venus-hair. Maiden grass, the smaller quakinggrass.-- Maiden tree. See Ginkgo.
maidenlike: Like a maiden; modest; coy.
maidenliness: The quality of being maidenly; the behavior that becomes amaid; modesty; gentleness.
maidenly: Like a maid; suiting a maid; maiden-like; gentle, modest,reserved.Must you be blushing . . . What a maidenly man-at-arms are you become! Shak.
maidenship: Maidenhood. [Obs.] Fuller.
maidhood: Maidenhood. Shak.
maidpale: Pale, like a sick girl. Shak.
maidservant: A female servant.
maieutics: The art of giving birth (i. e., clearness and conviction) toideas, which are conceived as struggling for birth. Payne.
maiger: The meagre.
maigre: Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day. Walpole.Maigre food (R. C. Ch.), food allowed to be eaten on fast days.
maihem: See Maim, and Mayhem.
maikel: A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied tothe skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is notbushy.
maikong: A South American wild dog (Canis cancrivorus); the crab-eatingdog.
mail: A spot. [Obs.]
mail-shell: A chiton.
mailable: Admissible lawfully into the mail. [U.S.]
mailclad: Protected by a coat of mail; clad in armor. Sir W. Scott.
mailed: Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales orplates.
mailing: A farm. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
maimedly: In a maimed manner.
maimedness: State of being maimed. Bolton.
main: Very extremely; as, main heavy. "I'm main dry." Foote. [Obs. orLow]
main yard: The yard on which the mainsail is extended, supported by themainmast.
main-gauche: The dagger held in the left hand, while the rapier is held inthe right; -- used to parry thrusts of the adversary's rapier.
main-hamper: A hamper to be carried in the hand; a hand basket used incarrying grapes to the press.
maine: One of the New England States. Maine law, any law prohibitingthe manufacture and sale of intoxicating beverages, esp. oneresembling that enacted in the State of Maine.
mainland: The continent; the principal land; -- opposed to island, orpeninsula. Dryden.After the two wayfarers had crossed from the peninsula to themainland. Hawthorne.
mainly: Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree. [Obs.] Bacon. Shak.
mainmast: The principal mast in a ship or other vessel.
mainor: A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.
mainpernable: Capable of being admitted to give surety by mainpernors; ableto be mainprised.
mainpernor: A surety, under the old writ of mainprise, for a prisoner'sappearance in court at a day.
mainpin: A kingbolt.
mainprise: To suffer to go at large, on his finding sureties, ormainpernors, for his appearance at a day; -- said of a prisoner.
mains: The farm attached to a mansion house. [Scot.]
mainsail: The principal sail in a ship or other vessel.[They] hoised up the mainsail to the wind. Acts xxvii. 40.
mainsheet: One of the ropes by which the mainsail is hauled aft andtrimmed.
mainspring: The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism,especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in agunlock which impels the hammer. Hence
mainstay: The stay extending from the foot of the foremast to themaintop.
mainswear: To swear falsely. [Obs.] Blount.
maintainable: That maybe maintained.
maintainer: One who maintains.
maintainor: One who, not being interested, maintains a cause dependingbetween others, by furnishing money, etc., to either party. Bouvier.Wharton.
maintenance: An officious or unlawful intermeddling in a cause dependingbetween others, by assisting either party with money or means tocarry it on. See Champerty. Wharton. Cap of maintenance. See underCap.
maintop: The platform about the head of the mainmast in square-riggedvessels.
maioid: Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeæ.
maister: Master. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
maistress: Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer.
maithes: Same as Maghet.
maize: A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays),widely cultivated as a forage and food plant; Indian corn. Also, itsseed, growing on cobs, and used as food for men animals. Maize eater(Zoöl.), a South American bird of the genus Pseudoleistes, allied tothe troupials.-- Maize yellow, a delicate pale yellow.
majestic: Possessing or exhibiting majesty; of august dignity,stateliness, or imposing grandeur; lofty; noble; grand. "The majesticworld." Shak. "Tethys'grave majestic pace." Milton.The least portions must be of the epic kind; all must be grave,majestic, and sublime. Dryden.
majestical: Majestic. Cowley.An older architecture, greater, cunninger, more majestical. M.Arnold.-- Ma*jes"tic*al*ly, adv.-- Ma*jes"tic*al*ness, n.
majesticness: The quality or state of being majestic. Oldenburg.
majesty: The dignity and authority of sovereign power; quality or statewhich inspires awe or reverence; grandeur; exalted dignity, whetherproceeding from rank, character, or bearing; imposing loftiness;stateliness; -- usually applied to the rank and dignity ofsovereigns.The Lord reigneth; he is clothed with majesty. Ps. xciii. 1.No sovereign has ever represented the majesty of great state withmore dignity and grace. Macaulay.
majolica: A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reachedits greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.
major: Greater by a semitone, either in interval or in difference ofpitch from another tone. Major axis (Geom.), the greater axis. SeeFocus, n., 2.-- Major key (Mus.), a key in which one and two, two and three, fourand five, five and six and seven, make major seconds, and three andfour, and seven and eight, make minor seconds.-- Major offense (Law), an offense of a greater degree whichcontains a lesser offense, as murder and robbery include assault.-- Major premise (Logic), that premise of a syllogism which containsthe major term.-- Major scale (Mus.), the natural diatonic scale, which hassemitones between the third and fourth, and seventh and fourth, andseventh and eighth degrees; the scale of the major mode, of which thethird is major. See Scale, and Diatonic.-- Major second (Mus.), a second between whose tones is a differencein pitch of a step.-- Major sixth (Mus.), a sixth of four steps and a half step. Inmajor keys the third and sixth from the key tone are major. Majorkeys and intervals, as distinguished from minors, are more cheerful.-- Major term (Logic), that term of a syllogism which forms thepredicate of the conclusion.-- Major third (Mus.), a third of two steps.
major general: . An officer of the army holding a rank next above that ofbrigadier general and next below that of lieutenant general, and whousually commands a division or a corps.
major-domo: A man who has authority to act, within certain limits, asmaster of the house; a steward; also, a chief minister or officer.
majorat: Property, landed or funded, so attached to a title of honor asto descend with it.
majorate: The office or rank of a major.
majoration: Increase; enlargement. [Obs.] Bacon.
majorcan: Of or pertaining to Majorca.-- n.
majority: Ancestors; ancestry. [Obs.]
majorship: The office of major.
majoun: See Madjoun.
majusculae: Capital letters, as found in manuscripts of the sixth centuryand earlier.
majuscule: A capital letter; especially, one used in ancient manuscripts.See Majusculæ. Majuscule writing, writing composed wholly of capitalletters, especially the style which prevailed in Europe from thethird to the sixth century.
makable: Capable of being made.
makaron: See Macaroon, 2. [Obs.]
make: A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. [Obs.]For in this world no woman is Worthy to be my make. Chaucer.
make and break: Any apparatus for making and breaking an electric circuit; acircuit breaker.
make-belief: A feigning to believe; make believe. J. H. Newman.
make-believe: A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a merepretense; a fiction; an invention. "Childlike make-believe." Tylor.To forswear self-delusion and make-believe. M. Arnold.
make-game: An object of ridicule; a butt. Godwin.
make-peace: A peacemaker. [R.] Shak.
make-up: The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often,the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating acharacter.The unthinking masses are necessarily teleological in their mentalmake-up. L. F. Ward.
makebate: One who excites contentions and quarrels. [Obs.]
maked: Made. Chaucer.
maker: The person who makes a promissory note.
makeshift: That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient. JamesMill.I am not a model clergyman, only a decent makeshift. G. Eliot.
makeweight: That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something oflittle account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap.
maki: A lemur. See Lemur.
making-iron: A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used bycalkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been drivenin.
mal-: . A prefix in composition denoting ill,or evil, F. male, adv.,fr. malus, bad, ill. In some words it has the form male-, as inmalediction, malevolent. See Malice.
mala: Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law. Mala in se Etym:[L.] (Law), offenses which are such from their own nature, at commonlaw, irrespective of statute.-- Mala prohibita Etym
malabar: A region in the western part of the Peninsula of India, betweenthe mountains and the sea. Malabar nut (Bot.), the seed of an EastIndian acanthaceous shrub, the Adhatoda Vasica, sometimes usedmedicinally.
malacatune: See Melocoton.
malacca: A town and district upon the seacoast of the Malay Peninsula.Malacca cane (Bot.), a cane obtained from a species of palm of thegenus Calamus (C. Scipionum), and of a brown color, often mottled.The plant is a native of Cochin China, Sumatra, and Malays.
malachite: Native hydrous carbonate of copper, usually occurring in greenmammillary masses with concentric fibrous structure.
malacissant: Softening; relaxing. [Obs.]
malacissation: The act of making soft or supple. [Obs.] Bacon.
malacobdella: A genus of nemertean worms, parasitic in the gill cavity ofclams and other bivalves. They have a large posterior sucker, likethat of a leech. See Illust. of Bdellomorpha.
malacoderm: One of a tribe of beetles (Malacodermata), with a soft andflexible body, as the fireflies.
malacolite: A variety of pyroxene.
malacologist: One versed in the science of malacology.
malacology: The science which relates to the structure and habits ofmollusks.
malacopoda: A class of air-breathing Arthropoda; -- called alsoProtracheata, and Onychophora.
malacopterygian: One of the Malacopterygii.
malacopterygii: An order of fishes in which the fin rays, except the anteriorray of the pectoral and dorsal fins, are closely jointed, and notspiny. It includes the carp, pike, salmon, shad, etc. Called alsoMalacopteri.
malacopterygious: Belonging to the Malacopterygii.
malacosteon: A peculiar disease of the bones, in consequence of which theybecome softened and capable of being bent without breaking.
malacostomous: Having soft jaws without teeth, as certain fishes.
malacostraca: A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca andThoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca.
malacostracan: One of the Malacostraca.
malacostracology: That branch of zoölogical science which relates to thecrustaceans; -- called also carcinology.
malacostracous: Belonging to the Malacostraca.
malacotoon: See Melocoton.
malacozoa: An extensive group of Invertebrata, including the Mollusca,Brachiopoda, and Bryozoa. Called also Malacozoaria.
malacozoic: Of or pertaining to the Malacozoa.
maladdress: Bad address; an awkward, tactless, or offensive way ofaccosting one or talking with one. W. D. Howells.
maladjustment: A bad adjustment.
maladministration: Bad administration; bad management of any business, especiallyof public affairs. [Written also maleadministration.]
maladroit: Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward;unskillful.-- Mal"a*droit`ly, adv.-- Mal`a*droit"ness, n.
malaga: A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence,Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines.
malagash: Same as Malagasy.
malagasy: A native or natives of Madagascar; also (sing.), the language.
malaise: An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill atease.
malamate: A salt of malamic acid.
malambo: A yellowish aromatic bark, used in medicine and perfumery, saidto be from the South American shrub Croton Malambo.
malamethane: A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamicacid.
malamic: Of or pertaining an acid intermediate between malic acid andmalamide, and known only by its salts.
malamide: The acid amide derived from malic acid, as a white crystallinesubstance metameric with asparagine.
malanders: A scurfy eruption in the bend of the knee of the fore leg of ahorse. See Sallenders. [Written also mallenders.]
malapert: Bold; forward; impudent; saucy; pert. Shak.-- n.
malapropism: A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used.
malapropos: Unseasonable or unseasonably; unsuitable or unsuitably.
malapterurus: A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electriccatfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric.
malar: Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to themalar bone; jugal.
malaria: A morbid condition produced by exhalations from decayingvegetable matter in contact with moisture, giving rise to fever andague and many other symptoms characterized by their tendency to recurat definite and usually uniform intervals.
malaria parasite: Any of several minute protozoans of the genus Plasmodium (syn.Hæmatozoön) which in their adult condition live in the tissues ofmosquitoes of the genus Anopheles (which see) and when transferred tothe blood of man, by the bite of the mosquito, produce malaria. Theyoung parasites, or sporozoites, enter the red blood corpuscles,growing at their expense, undergoing sporulation, and finallydestroying the corpuscles, thus liberating in the blood plasma animmense number of small spores called merozoites. An indefinite butnot ultimated number of such generations may follow, but if meanwhilethe host is bitten by a mosquito, the parasites develop into gametesin the stomach of the insect. These conjugate, the zygote thusproduced divides, forming spores, and eventually sporozoites, which,penetrating to the salivary glands of the mosquito, may be introducedinto a new host. The attacks of the disease coincide with thedissolution of the corpuscles and liberation of the spores andproducts of growth of the parasites into the blood plasma. Severalspecies of the parasite are distinguished, as P. vivax, producingtertian malaria; P. malariæ, quartan malaria; and P. (subgenusLaverania) falciferum, the malarial fever of summer and autumn commonin the tropics.
malashaganay: The fresh-water drumfish (Haploidonotus grunniens).
malate: A salt of malic acid.
malaxation: The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; theformation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters. [R.]
malaxator: One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine forgrinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass. [R.]
malay: One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the MalayPeninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.
malayalam: The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages,closely related to the Tamil. Yule.
malbrouck: A West African arboreal monkey (Cercopithecus cynosurus).
malconformation: Imperfect, disproportionate, or abnormal formation; ill form;disproportion of parts.
malcontent: discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfiedwith the government. [Written also malecontent.]The famous malcontent earl of Leicester. Milner.
malcontented: Malcontent.-- Mal`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.-- Mal`con*tent"ed*ness, n.
maldanian: Any species of marine annelids of the genus Maldane, or familyMaldanidæ. They have a slender, round body, and make tubes in thesand or mud.
male: Evil; wicked; bad. [Obs.] Marston.
male-: . See Mal-.
male-odor: See Malodor.
male-spirited: Having the spirit of a male; vigorous; courageous. [R.] B.Jonson.
maleadministration: Maladministration.
maleate: A salt of maleic acid.
malebranchism: The philosophical system of Malebranche, an eminent Frenchmetaphysician. The fundamental doctrine of his system is that themind can not have knowledge of anything external to itself except inits relation to God.
maleconformation: Malconformation.
malecontent: Malcontent.
maledicency: Evil speaking. [Obs.] Atterbury.
maledicent: Speaking reproachfully; slanderous. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
maledict: Accursed; abominable. [R.]
malediction: A proclaiming of evil against some one; a cursing; imprecation;a curse or execration; -- opposed to benediction.No malediction falls from his tongue. Longfellow.
malefaction: A crime; an offense; an evil deed. [R.] Shak.
malefactress: A female malefactor. Hawthorne.
malefeasance: See Malfeasance.
malefic: Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful. [R.]Chaucer.
malefice: An evil deed; artifice; enchantment. [Obs.]
maleficence: Evil doing, esp. to others.
maleficent: Doing evil to others; harmful; mischievous.
maleficial: Injurious. Fuller.
maleficiate: To bewitch; to harm. [Obs.] Burton.
maleficiation: A bewitching. [Obs.]
maleficience: The doing of evil, harm, or mischief.
maleficient: Doing evil, harm, or mischief.
maleformation: See Malformation.
maleic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series,metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid.
malengine: Evil machination; guile; deceit. [Obs.] Gower.
maleo: A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brushturkey. It makes mounds in which to lay its eggs.
malepractice: See Malpractice.
malet: A little bag or budget. [Obs.] Shelton.
maletreat: See Maltreat.
malevolence: The quality or state of being malevolent; evil dispositiontoward another; inclination to injure others; ill will. See Synonymof Malice.
malevolent: Wishing evil; disposed to injure others; rejoicing in another'smisfortune.
malevolently: In a malevolent manner.
malevolous: Malevolent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.
malexecution: Bad execution. D. Webster.
maleyl: A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.
malfeasance: The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evilconduct; an illegal deed. [Written also malefeasance.]
malformation: Ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal orwrong conformation or structure.
malgracious: Not graceful; displeasing. [Obs.] Gower.
malgre: See Mauger.
malic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid. Malicacid, a hydroxy acid obtained as a substance which is sirupy orcrystallized with difficulty, and has a strong but pleasant sourtaste. It occurs in many fruits, as in green apples, currants, etc.It is levorotatory or dextrorotatory according to the temperature andconcentration. An artificial variety is a derivative of succinicacid, but has no action on polarized light, and thus malic acid is aremarkable case of physical isomerism.
malice: Any wicked or mischievous intention of the mind; a depravedinclination to mischief; an intention to vex, annoy, or injureanother person, or to do a wrongful act without just cause or causeor excuse; a wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others;willfulness. Malice aforethought or prepense, malice previously anddeliberately entertained.
malicho: Mischief. [Obs.] Shak.
malicious: With wicked or mischievous intentions or motives; wrongful anddone intentionally without just cause or excuse; as, a malicious act.Malicious abandonment, the desertion of a wife or husband withoutjust cause. Burrill.-- Malicious mischief (Law), malicious injury to the property ofanother; -- an offense at common law. Wharton.-- Malicious prosecution or arrest (Law), a wanton prosecution orarrest, by regular process in a civil or criminal proceeding, withoutprobable cause. Bouvier.
malign: To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; towrong; to injure. [Obs.]The people practice what mischiefs and villainies they will againstprivate men, whom they malign by stealing their goods, or murderingthem. Spenser.
malignant: Tending to produce death; threatening a fatal issue; virulent;as, malignant diphtheria. Malignant pustule (Med.), a very contagiousdisease, transmitted to man from animals, characterized by theformation, at the point of reception of the virus, of a vesicle orpustule which first enlarges and then breaks down into an unhealthyulcer. It is marked by profound exhaustion and usually fatal. Calledalso charbon, and sometimes, improperly, anthrax.
malignantly: In a malignant manner.
maligner: One who maligns.
malignify: To make malign or malignant. [R.] "A strong faith malignified."Southey.
malignly: In a malign manner; with malignity.
malinger: To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability.
malingerer: In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who inducesor protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, ingeneral, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability.
malingery: The spirit or practices of a malingerer; malingering.
malison: Malediction; curse; execration. [Poetic]God's malison on his head who this gainsays. Sir W. Scott.
malkin: A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out acannon.
mall: To beat with a mall; to beat with something heavy; to bruise;to maul.
mallard: A drake; the male of Anas boschas.
malleability: The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed tofriability and brittleness. Locke.
malleable: Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer,or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals. Malleable iron,iron that is capable of extension or of being shaped under thehammer; decarbonized cast iron. See under Iron.-- Malleable iron castings, articles cast from pig iron and mademalleable by heating then for several days in the presence of somesubstance, as hematite, which deprives the cast iron of some of itscarbon.
malleableize: To make malleable.
malleableness: Quality of being malleable.
malleal: Pertaining to the malleus.
malleate: To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf.
malleation: The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, asa metal; extension by beating.
mallecho: Same as Malicho.
mallee bird: The leipoa. See Leipoa.
mallenders: Same as Malanders.
malleolar: Of or pertaining to the malleolus; in the region of themalleoli of the ankle joint.
malleolus: A projection at the distal end of each bone of the leg at theankle joint. The malleolus of the tibia is the internal projection,that of the fibula the external.
mallet: A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving atool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a longhandle, -- used in playing croquet.
malleus: The outermost of the three small auditory bones, ossicles; thehammer. It is attached to the tympanic membrane by a long process,the handle or manubrium. See Illust. of Far.
mallophaga: An extensive group of insects which are parasitic on birds andmammals, and feed on the feathers and hair; -- called also bird lice.See Bird louse, under Bird.
mallotus: A genus of small Arctic fishes. One American species, thecapelin (Mallotus villosus), is extensively used as bait for cod.
mallowwort: Any plant of the order Malvaceæ.
malma: A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting NorthernAmerica, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Vardentrout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet.
malmag: The tarsius, or spectral lemur.
malmsey: A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc. Shak.
malnutrition: Faulty or imperfect nutrition.
malobservation: Erroneous observation. J. S Mill.
malodor: An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.-- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle.
malodorous: Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. --Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle.[1913 Webster]
malonate: At salt of malonic acid.
malonic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid produced artifically asa white crystalline substance, CH2.(CO2H)2, and so called becauseobtained by the oxidation of malic acid.
malonyl: A hydrocarbon radical, CH2.(CO)2, from malonic acid.
malpais: The rough surface of a congealed lava stream. [Southwestern U.S.]
malpighia: A genus of tropical American shrubs with opposite leaves andsmall white or reddish flowers. The drupes of Malpighia urens areeaten under the name of Barbadoes cherries.
malpighiaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of tropicaltrees and shrubs (Malpighiaceæ), some of them climbing plants, andtheir stems forming many of the curious lianes of South Americanforests.
malpighian: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Marcello Malpighi, anItalian anatomist of the 17th century. Malhighian capsules orcorpuscles, the globular dilatations, containing the glomeruli orMalpighian tufts, at the extremities of the urinary tubules of thekidney. Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, masses of adenoid tissueconnected with branches of the splenic artery.
malposition: A wrong position.
malpractice: Evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary toestablished rules; specifically, the treatment of a case by a surgeonor physician in a manner which is contrary to accepted rules andproductive of unfavorable results. [Written also malepractice.]
malt: Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln,thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has beenevolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky.
maltalent: Ill will; malice. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser.
maltese: Of or pertaining to Malta or to its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
malthusian: Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R.Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories.
malthusianism: The system of Malthusian doctrines relating to population.
malting: The process of making, or of becoming malt.
maltman: A man whose occupation is to make malt.
maltonic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, maltose; specif.,designating an acid called also gluconic or dextronic acid. SeeGluconic.
maltose: A crystalline sugar formed from starch by the action ofdistance of malt, and the amylolytic ferment of saliva and pancreaticjuice. It resembles dextrose, but rotates the plane of polarizedlight further to the right and possesses a lower cupric oxidereducing power.
maltreat: To treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly.
maltreatment: Ill treatment; ill usage; abuse.
maltster: A maltman. Swift.
maltworm: A tippler. [R.] Shak.
malty: Consisting, or like, malt. Dickens.
malum: An evil. See Mala.
malvaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants(Malvaceæ), of which the mallow is the type. The cotton plant,hollyhock, and abutilon are of this order, and the baobab and thesilk-cotton trees are now referred to it.
malversation: Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, orextortion in office.
malvesie: Malmsey wine. See Malmsey. " A jub of malvesye." Chaucer.
mam: Mamma.
mama: See Mamma.
mamaluke: Same as Mameluke.
mamelon: A rounded hillock; a rounded elevation or protuberance.Westmin. Rev.
mameluco: A child born of a white father and Indian mother. [S. Amer.]
mameluke: One of a body of mounted soldiers recruited from slavesconverted to Mohammedanism, who, during several centuries, had moreor less control of the government of Egypt, until exterminated ordispersed by Mehemet Ali in 1811.
mamillated: See Mammillated.
mamma: Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity. [Written alsomama.]Tell tales papa and mamma. Swift.
mammal: One of the Mammalia. Age of mammals. See under Age, n., 8.
mammalia: The highest class of Vertebrata. The young are nourished for atime by milk, or an analogous fluid, secreted by the mammary glandsof the mother.
mammalian: Of or pertaining to the Mammalia or mammals.
mammaliferous: Containing mammalian remains; -- said of certain strata.
mammalogical: Of or pertaining to mammalogy.
mammalogist: One versed in mammalogy.
mammalogy: The science which relates to mammals or the Mammalia. SeeMammalia.
mammary: Of or pertaining to the mammæ or breasts; as, the mammaryarteries and veins.
mammee: A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea(M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with athick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasanttaste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple.
mammer: To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully. [Obs.]
mammet: An idol; a puppet; a doll. [Obs.] Selden. Shak.
mammetry: See Mawmetry. [Obs.]
mammifer: A mammal. See Mammalia.
mammiferous: Having breasts; of, pertaining to, or derived from, theMammalia.
mammiform: Having the form of a mamma (breast) or mammæ.
mammilla: The nipple.
mammillary: Composed of convex convex concretions, somewhat resembling thebreasts in form; studded with small mammiform protuberances.
mammilliform: Having the form of a mammilla.
mammilloid: Like a mammilla or nipple; mammilliform.
mammock: A shapeless piece; a fragment. [Obs.]
mammodis: Coarse plain India muslins.
mammology: Mastology. See Mammalogy.
mammon: Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified.Ye can not serve God and Mammon. Matt. vi. 24.
mammonish: Actuated or prompted by a devotion to money getting or theservice of Mammon. Carlyle.
mammonism: Devotion to the pursuit of wealth; worldliness. Carlyle.
mammonist: A mammonite.
mammonite: One devoted to the acquisition of wealth or the service ofMammon. C. Kingsley.
mammonization: The process of making mammonish; the state of being under theinfluence of mammonism.
mammonize: To make mammonish.
mammose: Having the form of the breast; breast-shaped.
mammoth: An extinct, hairy, maned elephant (Elephas primigenius), ofenormous size, remains of which are found in the northern parts ofboth continents. The last of the race, in Europe, were coeval withprehistoric man.
mammothrept: A child brought up by its grandmother; a spoiled child. [R.]O, you are a more mammothrept in judgment. B. Jonson.
mammy: A child's name for mamma, mother.
mamzer: A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbiddenby the Mosaic law; a bastard. Deut. xxiii. 2 (Douay version).
man-eater: One who, or that which, has an appetite for human flesh;specifically, one of certain large sharks (esp. CarcharodonRondeleti); also, a lion or a tiger which has acquired the habit offeeding upon human flesh.
man-of-war: A government vessel employed for the purposes of war, esp. oneof large size; a ship of war. Man-of-war bird (Zoöl.), The frigatebird; also applied to the skua gulls, and to the wandering albatross.-- Man-of-war hawk (Zoöl.), the frigate bird.-- Man-of-war's man, a sailor serving in a ship of war.-- Portuguese man-of-war (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Physalia.See Physalia.
manable: Marriageable.[Obs.]
manace: Same as Menace. [Obs.]
manacle: A handcuff; a shackle for the hand or wrist; -- usually in theplural.Doctrine unto fools is as fetters on the feet, and like manacles onthe right hand. Ecclus. xxi. 19.
manage: The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse;management; administration. See Manege. [Obs.]Young men, in the conduct and manage of actions, embrace more thanthey can hold. Bacon.Down, down I come; like glistering PhaëthonWanting the manage of unruly jades. Shak.The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl. Shak.
manageability: The state or quality of being manageable; manageableness.
manageable: Such as can be managed or used; suffering control; governable;tractable; subservient; as, a manageable horse.
manageless: Unmanageable.[R.]
managerial: Of or pertaining to management or a manager; as, managerialqualities. "Managerial responsibility." C. Bronté.
managership: The office or position of a manager.
manakin: Any one of numerous small birds belonging to Pipra, Manacus,and other genera of the family Pipridæ. They are mostly natives ofCentral and South America. some are bright-colored, and others havethe wings and tail curiously ornamented. The name is sometimesapplied to related birds of other families.
manatee: Any species of Trichechus, a genus of sirenians; -- calledalsosea cow. [Written also manaty, manati.]
manation: The act of issuing or flowing out. [Obs.]
manbird: An aviator. [Colloq.]
manbote: A sum paid to a lord as a pecuniary compensation for killinghis man (that is, his vassal, servant, or tenant). Spelman.
manca: See Mancus.
manche: A sleeve. [Obs.]
manchet: Fine white bread; a loaf of fine bread. [Archaic] Bacon.Tennyson.
manchineel: A euphorbiaceous tree (Hippomane Mancinella) of tropicalAmerica, having a poisonous and blistering milky juice, and poisonousacrid fruit somewhat resembling an apple. Bastard manchineel, a tree(Cameraria latifolia) of the East Indies, having similar poisonousproperties. Lindley.
manchu: Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants.-- n.
mancipate: To enslave; to bind; to restrict. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
mancipation: Slavery; involuntary servitude. [Obs.] Johnson.
manciple: A steward; a purveyor, particularly of a college or Inn ofCourt. Chaucer.
mancona bark: . See Sassy bark.
mancus: An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and ofvariously estimated values. The silver mancus was equal to about oneshilling of modern English money.
mand: A demand. [Obs.] See Demand.
mandamus: A writ issued by a superior court and directed to some inferiortribunal, or to some corporation or person exercising authority,commanding the performance of some specified duty.
mandarin: A small orange, with easily separable rind. It is thought to beof Chinese origin, and is counted a distinct species (Citrusnobilis)mandarin orange; tangerine. Mandarin duck (Zoöl.), abeautiful Asiatic duck (Dendronessa galericulata), oftendomesticated, and regarded by the Chinese as an emblem of conjugalaffection.-- Mandarin language, the spoken or colloquial language of educatedpeople in China.-- Mandarin yellow (Chem.), an artificial aniline dyestuff used forcoloring silk and wool, and regarded as a complex derivative ofquinoline.
mandarinate: The collective body of officials or persons of rank in China.S. W. Williams.
mandarinic: Appropriate or peculiar to a mandarin.
mandarining: The process of giving an orange color to goods formed of animaltissue, as silk or wool, not by coloring matter, but by producing acertain change in the fiber by the action of dilute nitric acid.Tomlinson.
mandarinism: A government mandarins; character or spirit of the mandarins.F. Lieder.
mandatary: One who undertakes to discharge a specific business commission;a mandatory. Wharton.
mandate: A rescript of the pope, commanding an ordinary collator to putthe person therein named in possession of the first vacant beneficein his collation.
mandator: The person who employs another to perform a mandate. Bouvier.
mandatory: Containing a command; preceptive; directory.
mandelate: A salt of mandelic acid.
mandelic: Pertaining to an acid first obtained from benzoic aldehyde (oilof better almonds), as a white crystalline substance; -- called alsophenyl glycolic acid.
mander: See Maunder.
manderil: A mandrel.
mandible: The bone, or principal bone, of the lower jaw; the inferiormaxilla; -- also applied to either the upper or the lower jaw in thebeak of birds.
mandibular: Of or pertaining to a mandible; like a mandible.-- n.
mandibulate: An insect having mandibles.
mandibuliform: Having the form of a mandible; -- said especially of themaxillæ of an insect when hard and adapted for biting.
mandibulohyoid: Pertaining both to the mandibular and the hyoid arch, orsituated between them.
mandil: A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries.
mandilion: See Mandil. Chapman.
mandingos: ; sing. Mandingo. (Ethnol.) An extensive and powerful tribe ofWest African negroes.
mandlestone: Amygdaloid.
mandment: Commandment. [Obs.]
mandola: An instrument closely resembling the mandolin, but of largersize and tuned lower.
mandore: A kind of four-stringed lute.
mandragora: A genus of plants; the mandrake. See Mandrake, 1.
mandragorite: One who habitually intoxicates himself with a narcotic obtainedfrom mandrake.
mandrake: A low plant (Mandragora officinarum) of the Nightshade family,having a fleshy root, often forked, and supposed to resemble a man.It was therefore supposed to have animal life, and to cry out whenpulled up. All parts of the plant are strongly narcotic. It is foundin the Mediterranean region.And shrieks like mandrakes, torn out of the earth, That livingmortals, hearing them, run mad. Shak.
mandrill: a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus, or Papio, mormon).The adult male has, on the sides of the nose, large, naked, groovedswellings, conspicuously striped with blue and red.
manducable: Such as can be chewed; fit to be eaten. [R.]Any manducable creature. Sir T. Herbert.
manducate: To masticate; to chew; to eat. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
manducation: The act of chewing. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
manducatory: Pertaining to, or employed in, chewing.
manducus: A grotesque mask, representing a person chewing or grimacing,worn in processions and by comic actors on the stage.
mane: The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about,the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc.See Illust. of Horse.
maned: Having a mane. Maned seal (Zoöl.), the sea lion.-- Maned sheep (Zoöl.), the aoudad.
maneh: A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekelsof gold and sixty shekels of silver. Ezek. xlv. 12.
maneless: Having no mane. Maneless lion (Zoöl.), a variety of the lionhaving a short, inconspicuous mane. It inhabits Arabia and adjacentcountries.
manequin: An artist's model of wood or other material.
manerial: See Manorial.
manes: The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of deadancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors.Hail, O ye holy manes! Dryden.
manesheet: A covering placed over the upper part of a horse's head.
manful: Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous,resolute, noble. " Manful hardiness." Chaucer.-- Man"ful*ly, adv.-- Man"ful*ness, n.
mangabey: Any one of several African monkeys of the genus Cercocebus, asthe sooty mangabey (C. fuliginosus), which is sooty black. [Alsowritten mangaby.]
mangan: See Mangonel.
manganate: A salt of manganic acid.
manganesate: A manganate. [Obs.]
manganese: An element obtained by reduction of its oxide, as a hard,grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty, but easily oxidized.Its ores occur abundantly in nature as the minerals pyrolusite,manganite, etc. Symbol Mn. Atomic weight 54.8.
manganese steel: Cast steel containing a considerable percentage of manganese,which makes it very hard and tough. See Alloy steel, above.
manganesian: Manganic. [R.]
manganesic: Manganic. [Obs.]
manganesious: Manganous.
manganesium: Manganese.
manganesous: Manganous.
manganic: Of, pertaining to resembling, or containing, manganese;specif., designating compounds in which manganese has a highervalence as contrasted with manganous compounds. Cf. Manganous.Manganic acid, an acid, H2MnO4, formed from manganese, analogous tosulphuric acid.
manganiferous: Containing manganese.
manganite: One of the oxides of manganese; -- called also gray manganeseore. It occurs in brilliant steel-gray or iron-black crystals, alsomassive.
manganium: Manganese.
manganous: Of, pertaining to, designating, those compounds of manganese inwhich the element has a lower valence as contrasted with manganiccompounds; as, manganous oxide. Manganous acid, a hypotheticalcompound analogous to sulphurous acid, and forming the so-calledmanganites.
mangcorn: A mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain. [ProvEng.]
mange: The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts. Mangeinsect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small parasitic mites,which burrow in the skin of cattle. horses, dogs, and other animals,causing the mange. The mange insect of the horse (Psoroptes, orDermatodectes, equi), and that of cattle (Symbiotes, orDermatophagys, bovis) are the most important species. See Acarina.
mangel-wurzel: A kind of large field beet (B. macrorhiza), used as food forcattle, -- by some considered a mere variety of the ordinary beet.See Beet. [Written also mangold-wurzel.]
manger: The fore part of the deck, having a bulkhead athwart ships highenough to prevent water which enters the hawse holes from runningover it.
mangily: In a mangy manner; scabbily.
manginess: The condition or quality of being mangy.
mangle: A machine for smoothing linen or cotton cloth, as sheets,tablecloths, napkins, and clothing, by roller pressure. Mangle rack(Mach.), a contrivance for converting continuous circular motion intoreciprocating rectilinear motion, by means of a rack and pinion, asin the mangle. The pinion is held to the rack by a groove in such amanner that it passes alternately from one side of the rack to theother, and thus gives motion to it in opposite directions, accordingto the side in which its teeth are engaged.-- Mangle wheel, a wheel in which the teeth, or pins, on its face,are interrupted on one side, and the pinion, working in them, passesfrom inside to outside of the teeth alternately, thus converting thecontinuous circular motion of the pinion into a reciprocatingcircular motion of the wheel.
mangler: One who mangles or tears in cutting; one who mutilates any workin doing it.
mangoldwurzel: See Mangel-wurzel.
mangonel: A military engine formerly used for throwing stones andjavelins.
mangonism: The art of mangonizing, or setting off to advantage. [Obs.]
mangonize: To furbish up for sale; to set off to advantage. [Obs. or R.]B. Jonson.
mangrove: The name of one or two trees of the genus Rhizophora (R.Mangle, and R. mucronata, the last doubtfully distinct) inhabitingmuddy shores of tropical regions, where they spread by emittingaërial roots, which fasten in the saline mire and eventually becomenew stems. The seeds also send down a strong root while yet attachedto the parent plant.
mangue: The kusimanse.
mangy: Infected with the mange; scabby.
manhaden: See Menhaden.
manhead: Manhood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
manhes process: A process by which copper matte is treated by passing throughit a blast of air, to oxidize and remove sulphur. It is analogous inapparatus to the Bessemer process for decarbonizing cast iron. Socalled from Pierre Manhès, a French metallurgist, who invented it.
manhole: A hole through which a man may descend or creep into a drain,sewer, steam boiler, parts of machinery, etc., for cleaning orrepairing.
maniable: Manageable. [Obs.] Bacon.
maniac: Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affectedwith mania; mad.
maniacal: Affected with, or characterized by, madness; maniac.-- Ma*ni"a*cal*ly, adv.
manic: Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement.
manicate: Covered with hairs or pubescence so platted together andinterwoven as to form a mass easily removed.
manicheist: Manichæan.
manicure: A person who makes a business of taking care of people's hands,especially their nails.[Men] who had taken good care of their hands by wearing gloves andavailing themselves of the services of a manicure. Pop. Sci. Monthly.
manid: Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidæ.
manie: Mania; insanity. [Obs.] Chaucer.
manifestable: Such as can be manifested.
manifestation: The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of beingmanifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding; also, thatwhich manifests; exhibition; display; revelation; as, themanifestation of God's power in creation.The secret manner in which acts of mercy ought to be performed,requires this public manifestation of them at the great day.Atterbury.
manifestible: Manifestable.
manifestly: In a manifest manner.
manifestness: The quality or state of being manifest; obviousness.
manifesto: A public declaration, usually of a prince, sovereign, or otherperson claiming large powers, showing his intentions, or proclaiminghis opinions and motives in reference to some act done orcontemplated by him; as, a manifesto declaring the purpose of aprince to begin war, and explaining his motives. Bouvier.it was proposed to draw up a manifesto, setting forth the grounds andmotives of our taking arms. Addison.Frederick, in a public manifesto, appealed to the Empire against theinsolent pretensions of the pope. Milman.
manifold: A cylindrical pipe fitting, having a number of lateral outlets,for connecting one pipe with several others.
manifolded: Having many folds, layers, or plates; as, a manifolded shield.[Obs.]
manifoldly: In a manifold manner.
manifoldness: A generalized concept of magnitude.
maniform: Shaped like the hand.
maniglion: Either one of two handles on the back of a piece of ordnance.
manikin: Of or pertaining to Manila or Manilla, the capital of thePhilippine Islands; made in, or exported from, that city. Manilacheroot or cigar, a cheroot or cigar made of tobacco grown in thePhilippine Islands.-- Manila hemp, a fibrous material obtained from the Musa textilis,a plant allied to the banana, growing in the Philippine and otherEast India islands; -- called also by the native name abaca. From itmatting, canvas, ropes, and cables are made.-- Manila paper, a durable brown or buff paper made of Manila hemp,used as a wrapping paper, and as a cheap printing and writing paper.The name is also given to inferior papers, made of other fiber.
manilio: See Manilla, 1. Sir T. Herbert.
manilla: Same as Manila.
manille: See 1st Manilla, 1.
manioc: The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M. Aipi), fromwhich cassava and tapioca are prepared; also, cassava.[Written alsomandioc, manihoc, manihot.]
manipulate: To use the hands in dexterous operations; to do hand work;specifically, to manage the apparatus or instruments used inscientific work, or in artistic or mechanical processes; also,specifically, to use the hand in mesmeric operations.
manipulative: Of or pertaining to manipulation; performed by manipulation.
manipulator: One who manipulates
manipulatory: Of or pertaining to manipulation.
manis: A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangularscales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on aroof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed onants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin.
manitrunk: The anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Insect.
mankind: Manlike; not womanly; masculine; bold; cruel. [Obs]Are women grown so mankind Must they be wooing Beau. & Fl.Be not too mankind against your wife. Chapman.
manks: Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man.-- n.
manlessly: Inhumanly. [Obs.]
manlike: Like man, or like a man, in form or nature; having thequalities of a man, esp. the nobler qualities; manly. " Gentle,manlike speech." Testament of Love. " A right manlike man." Sir P.Sidney.In glaring Chloe's manlike taste and mien. Shenstone.
manliness: The quality or state of being manly.
manling: A little man. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
manly: Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish;manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble.Let's briefly put on manly readiness. Shak.Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life. Dryden.
manna: The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey throughthe wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. Ex. xvi. 15.
manner: Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well-bred carriage and address.Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices. Emerson.
mannerchor: A German men's chorus or singing club.
mannerism: Adherence to a peculiar style or manner; a characteristic modeof action, bearing, or treatment, carried to excess, especially inliterature or art.Mannerism is pardonable,and is sometimes even agreeable, when themanner, though vicious, is natural . . . . But a mannerism which doesnot sit easy on the mannerist, which has been adopted on principle,and which can be sustained only by constant effort, is alwaysoffensive. Macaulay.
mannerist: One addicted to mannerism; a person who, in action, bearing, ortreatment, carries characteristic peculiarities to excess. Seecitation under Mannerism.
mannerliness: The quality or state of being mannerly; civility; complaisance.Sir M. Hale.
mannerly: Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant.What thou thinkest meet, and is most mannerly. Shak.
mannheim gold: A kind of brass made in imitation of gold. It contains eightyper cent of copper and twenty of zinc. Ure.
mannide: A white amorphous or crystalline substance, obtained bydehydration of mannite, and distinct from, but convertible into,mannitan.
mannitan: A white amorphous or crystalline substance obtained by thepartial dehydration of mannite.
mannitate: A salt of mannitic acid.
mannite: A white crystalline substance of a sweet taste obtained from aso-called manna, the dried sap of the flowering ash (Fraxinus ornus);-- called also mannitol, and hydroxy hexane. Cf. Dulcite.HO.CH2.(CHOH)4.CH2.OH = D-mannitol; manna sugar; cordycepic acid;Diosmol; Mannicol; Mannidex; Osmiktrol; Osmosal.-- used in pharmacy as excipient and diluent for solids and liquids.Used as a food additive for anti-caking properties, or as asweetener. Also used to "cut" (dilute) illegal drugs such as cocaineor heroin. ("excipient" use)
mannitic: Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, mannite.Mannitic acid (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, intermediatebetween saccharic acid and mannite, and obtained by the partialoxidation of the latter.
mannitol: The technical name of mannite. See Mannite.
mannitose: A variety of sugar obtained by the partial oxidation ofmannite, and closely resembling levulose.
mano: The muller, or crushing and grinding stone, used in grindingcorn on a metate. [Mexico & Local U. S.]
manoeuvre: See Maneuver.
manograph: An optical device for making an indicator diagram for high-speed engines. It consists of a light-tight box or camera having atone end a small convex mirror which reflects a beam of light on tothe ground glass or photographic plate at the other end. The mirroris pivoted so that it can be moved in one direction by a smallplunger operated by an elastic metal diaphragm which closes a tubeconnected with the engine cylinder. It is also moved at right anglesto this direction by a reducing motion, called a reproducer, so as tocopy accurately on a smaller scale the motion of the engine piston.The resultant of these two movements imparts to the reflected beam oflight a motion similar to that of the pencil of the ordinaryindicator, and this can be traced on the sheet of ground glass, orphotographed.
manometer: An instrument for measuring the tension or elastic force ofgases, steam, etc., constructed usually on the principle of allowingthe gas to exert its elastic force in raising a column of mercury inan open tube, or in compressing a portion of air or other gas in aclosed tube with mercury or other liquid intervening, or in bending ametallic or other spring so as to set in motion an index; a pressuregauge. See Pressure, and Illust. of Air pump.
manor: The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as alord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use andsubsistence of his family.My manors, rents, revenues, l forego. Shak.
manorial: Of or pertaining to a manor. " Manorial claims." Paley.
manoscope: Same as Manometer.
manoscopy: The science of the determination of the density of vapors andgases.
manovery: A contrivance or maneuvering to catch game illegally.
manqueller: A killer of men; a manslayer. [Obs.] Carew.
manrope: One of the side ropes to the gangway of a ship. Totten.
mansard roof: A hipped curb roof; that is, a roof having on all sides twoslopes, the lower one being steeper than the upper one.
manservant: A male servant.
mansion: A twelfth part of the heavens; a house. See 1st House, 8.Chaucer.
mansionary: Resident; residentiary; as, mansionary canons.
mansionry: The state of dwelling or residing; occupancy as a dwellingplace. [Obs.] Shak.
manslaughter: The unlawful killing of a man, either in negligenc
manslayer: One who kills a human being; one who commits manslaughter.
manstealer: A person who steals or kidnaps a human being or beings.
manstealing: The act or business of stealing or kidnaping human beings,especially with a view to e
mansuete: Tame; gentle; kind. [Obs.] Ray.
mansuetude: Tameness; gentleness; mildness. [Archaic]
manswear: To swear falsely. Same as Mainswear.
manta: See Coleoptera and Sea devil.
mantchoo: Same as Manchu.
mantel: The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast infront and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above thefireplace, and its supports. [Written also mantle.]
mantelet: A musket-proof shield of rope, wood, or metal, which issometimes used for the protection of sappers or riflemen whileattacking a fortress, or of gunners at embrasures; -- now commonlywritten mantlet.
mantelletta: A silk or woolen vestment without sleeves worn by cardinals,bishops, abbots, and the prelates of the Roman court. It has a lowcollar, is fastened in front, and reaches almost to the knees.
mantelpiece: Same as Mantel.
mantelshelf: The shelf of a mantel.
manteltree: The lintel of a fireplace when of wood, as frequently in earlyhouses.
mantic: Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of oneinspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic. [R.]"Mantic fury." Trench.
mantis: Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insectsof the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for theirslender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs ina manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common Americanspecies is M. Carolina. Mantis shrimp. (Zoöl.) See Sguilla.
mantispid: Any neuropterous insect of the genus Mantispa, and alliedgenera. The larvæ feed on plant lice. Also used adjectively. SeeIllust. under Neuroptera.
mantissa: The decimal part of a logarithm, as distinguished from theintegral part, or characteristic.
mantle: Same as Mantling.
mantlet: See Mantelet.
mantling: The representation of a mantle, or the drapery behind andaround a coat of arms
manto: See Manteau. [Obs.] Bailey.
mantologist: One who is skilled in mantology; a diviner. [R.]
mantology: The act or art of divination. [R.]
mantra: A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm. [India]
mantuamaker: One who makes dresses, cloaks, etc., for women; a dressmaker.
mantuan: Of or pertaining to Mantua.-- n.
manu: One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors ofhuman wisdom.
manual: Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as,manual labor; the king's sign manual. "Manual and ocularexamination." Tatham. Manual alphabet. See Dactylology.-- Manual exercise (Mil.) the exercise by which soldiers are taughtthe use of their muskets and other arms.-- Seal manual, the impression of a seal worn on the hand as a ring.-- Sign manual. See under Sign.
manualist: One who works wi
manually: By hand.
manuary: Manual.-- n.
manubial: Belonging to spoils; taken in war. [Obs.] Bailey.
manubrial: Of or pertaining to a manubrium; shaped like a manubrium;handlelike.
manubrium: A handlelike process or part; esp., the anterior segment of thesternum, or presternum, and the handlelike process of the malleus.
manucode: Any bird of the genus Manucodia, of Australia and New Guinea.They are related to the bird of paradise.
manuducent: One who leads by the hand; a manuductor. [Obs.]
manuduction: Guidance by the hand. [Obs.] Glanvill. South.
manuductor: A conductor; an officer in the ancient church who gave thesignal for the choir to sing, and who beat time with the hand, andregulated the music. Moore (Encyc. of Music.)
manufactory: Pertaining to manufacturing.
manufactural: Of or pertaining to manufactures. [R.]
manufacture: To be employed in manufacturing something.
manufacturer: One who manufactures.
manul: A wild cat (Felis manul), having long, soft, light-colored fur.It is found in the mountains of Central Asia, and dwells among rocks.
manumise: To manumit. [Obs.] Dryden.
manumission: The act of manumitting, or of liberating a slave from bondage."Given to slaves at their manumission." Arbuthnot.
manumit: To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage orservitude; to free, as a slave. "Manumitted slaves." Hume.
manumotive: Movable by hand. [R.]
manumotor: A small wheel carriage, so constructed that a person sitting init may move it.
manurage: Cultivation. [Obs.] Warner.
manurance: Cultivation. [Obs.] Spenser.
manure: Any matter which makes land productive; a fertilizingsubstance, as the contents of stables and barnyards, dung, decayinganimal or vegetable substances, etc. Dryden.
manurement: Cultivation. [Obs.] W. Wotton.
manurer: One who manures land.
manurial: Relating to manures.
manuring: The act of process of applying manure; also, the manureapplied.
manus: The distal segment of the fore limb, including the carpus andfore foot or hand.
manuscript: Written with or by the hand; not printed; as, a manuscriptvolume.
manuscriptal: Manuscript. [Obs.]
manutenency: Maintenance. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.
manway: A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through.Raymond.
manx: Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as,the Manx language. Manx cat (Zoöl.), a breed of domestic cats havinga rudimentary tail, containing only about three vertebrae.-- Manx shearwater (Zoöl.), an oceanic bird (Puffinus anglorum, orP. puffinus), called also Manx petrel, Manx puffin. It was formerlyabundant in the Isle of Man.
many: A retinue of servants; a household. [Obs.] Chaucer.
many-minded: Having many faculties; versatile; many-sided.
many-sided: In many different ways; variously.
manyplies: The third division, or that between the reticulum, or honeycombstomach, and the abomasum, or rennet stomach, in the stomach ofruminants; the omasum; the psalterium. So called from the numerousfolds in its mucous membrane. See Illust of Ruminant.
manzanilla: A kind of small roundish olive with a small freestone pit, afine skin, and a peculiar bitterish flavor. Manzanillas are commonlypitted and stuffed with Spanish pimientos.
manzanita: A name given to several species of Arctostaphylos, but mostlyto A. glauca and A. pungens, shrubs of California, Oregon, etc., withreddish smooth bark, ovate or oval coriaceous evergreen leaves, andbearing clusters of red berries, which are said to be a favorite foodof the grizzly bear.
maori: One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, theoriginal language of New Zealand.-- a.
map: To represent by a map; -- often with out; as, to survey andmap, or map out, a county. Hence, figuratively
mapach: The raccoon.
maple: A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species. A.saccharinum is the rock maple, or sugar maple, from the sap of whichsugar is made, in the United States, in great quantities, byevaporation; the red or swamp maple is A. rubrum; the silver maple,A. dasycarpum, having fruit wooly when young; the striped maple, A.Pennsylvanium, called also moosewood. The common maple of Europe isA. campestre, the sycamore maple is A. Pseudo-platanus, and theNorway maple is A. platanoides.
maplike: Having or consisting of lines resembling a map; as, the maplikefigures in which certain lichens grow.
mappery: The making, or study, of maps. [Obs.] Shak.
maqui: A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui). Its bark furnishes stringsfor musical instruments, and a medicinal wine is made from itsberries.
mar: A small lake. See Mere. [Prov. Eng.]
mar-text: A blundering preacher.
mara: The principal or ruling evil spirit. E. Arnold.
marabou: A large stork of the genus Leptoptilos (formerly Ciconia), esp.the African species (L. crumenifer), which furnishes plumes worn asornaments. The Asiatic species (L. dubius, or L. argala) is theadjutant. See Adjutant. [Written also marabu.]
marabout: A Mohammedan saint; especially, one who claims to work curessupernaturally.
maracan: A macaw.
marai: A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders ofthe Pacific Ocean.
maranatha: "Our Lord cometh;" -- an expression used by St. Paul at theconclusion of his first Epistle to the Corinthians (xvi. 22). Thisword has been used in anathematizing persons for great crimes; asmuch as to say, "May the Lord come quickly to take vengeance of thycrimes." See Anathema maranatha, under Anathema.
maranta: A genus of endogenous plants found in tropical America, andsome species also in India. They have tuberous roots containing alarge amount of starch, and from one species (Maranta arundinacea)arrowroot is obtained. Many kinds are cultivated for ornament.
maraschino: A liqueur distilled from fermented cherry juice, and flavoredwith the pit of a variety of cherry which grows in Dalmatia.
marasmus: A wasting of flesh without fever or apparent disease; a kind ofconsumption; atrophy; phthisis.Pining atrophy, Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence. Milton.Marasmus senilis Etym
maraud: To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; toplunder. "Marauding hosts." Milman.
marauder: A rover in quest of booty or plunder; a plunderer; one whopillages. De Quincey.
maravedi: A small copper coin of Spain, equal to three mils Americanmoney, less than a farthing sterling. Also, an ancient Spanish goldcoin.
marble: To stain or vein like marble; to variegate in color; as, tomarble the edges of a book, or the surface of paper.
marble-edged: Having the edge veined or spotted with different colors likemarble, as a book.
marbled: Varied with irregular markings, or witch a confused blending ofirregular spots and streaks.
marbleize: To stain or grain in imitation of marble; to cover with asurface resembling marble; as, to marbleize slate, wood, or iron.
marbling: Distinct markings resembling the variegations of marble, as onbirds and insects.
marbly: Containing, or resembling, marble.
marbrinus: A cloth woven so as to imitate the appearance of marble; --much used in the 15th and 16th centuries. Beck (Draper's Dict.).
marc: The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit,particularly of grapes.
marcantant: A merchant. [Obs.] Shak.
marcasite: A sulphide of iron resembling pyrite or common iron pyrites incomposition, but differing in form; white iron pyrites. Goldenmarcasite, tin. [Obs.]
marcassin: A young wild boar.
marcato: In a marked emphatic manner; -- used adverbially as adirection.
marceline: A thin silk fabric used for linings, etc., in ladies' dresses.
marcescent: Withering without
marcescible: Li
march: The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days.The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changingskies. Bryant.As mad as a March Hare, an old English Saying derived from the factthat March is the rutting time of hares, when they are excitable andviolent. Wright.
march-mad: Extremely rash; foolhardy. See under March, the month. Sir W.Scott.
march-ward: A warden of the marches; a marcher.
marcher: One who marches.
marching: ,fr. March, v. Marching money (Mil.), the additional pay ofofficer or soldier when his regiment is marching.-- In marching order (Mil.), equipped for a march.-- Marching regiment. (Mil.) (a) A regiment in active service. (b)In England, a regiment liable to be ordered into other quarters, athome or abroad; a regiment of the line.
marchioness: The wife or the widow of a marquis; a woman who has the rankand dignity of a marquis. Spelman.
marchman: A person living in the marches between England and Scotland orWales.
marchpane: A kind of sweet bread or biscuit; a cake of pounded almonds andsugar. [Obs.]marzipan Shak.
marcian: Under the influence of Mars; courageous; bold. [Obs.] Chaucer.
marcidity: The state or quality of being withered or lean. [R.]
marcionite: A follower of Marcion, a Gnostic of the second century, whoadopted the Oriental notion of the two conflicting principles, andimagined that between them there existed a third power, neitherwholly good nor evil, the Creator of the world and of man, and theGod of the Jewish dispensation. Brande & C.
marcobrunner: A celebrated Rhine wine.
marconi: Designating, or pert. to, Marconi's system of wirelesstelegraphy; as, Marconi aërial, coherer, station, system, etc.
marconi system: A system or wireless telegraphy developed by G. Marconi, anItalian physicist, in which Hertzian waves are used in transmissionand a coherer is used as the receiving instrument.
marconigram: A Marconi wireless message.
marconigraph: The apparatus used in Marconi wireless telegraphy.
marconism: The theory or practice of Marconi's wireless telegraph system.
marcor: A wasting away of flesh; decay. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
marcosian: One of a Gnostic sect of the second century, so called fromMarcus, an Egyptian, who was reputed to be a margician.
mardi gras: The last day of Carnival; Shrove Tuesday; -- in some cities agreat day of carnival and merrymaking.
mare: The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds.
mare clausum: Lit., closed sea; hence, a body of water within the separatejurisdiction of the nation; -- opposed to open sea, the water open toall nations and over which no single nation has special control.
marechal niel: A kind of large yellow rose. [Written also Marshal Niel.]
mareis: A Marsh. [Obs.] Chaucer.
marena: A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus.
mareschal: A military officer of high rank; a marshal. [Obs.]
margarate: A compound of the so-called margaric acid with a base.
margaric: Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly. Margaric acid. (a)(Physiol. Chem.) A fatty body, crystallizing in pearly scales, andobtained by digesting saponified fats (soaps) with an acid. It wasformerly supposed to be an individual fatty acid, but is now known tobe simply an intimate mixture of stearic and palmitic acids. (b)(Chem.) A white, crystalline substance, C17H34O2 of the fatty acidseries, intermediate between palmitic and stearic acids, and obtainedfrom the wax of certain lichens, from cetyl cyanide, and othersources.
margarin: A fatty substance, extracted from animal fats and certainvegetable oils, formerly supposed to be a definite compound ofglycerin and margaric acid, but now known to be simply a mixture orcombination of tristearin and teipalmitin.
margaritaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly.
margarite: A mineral related to the micas, but low in silica and yieldingbrittle folia with pearly luster.
margaritic: Margaric.
margaritiferous: Producing pearls.
margarodite: A hidrous potash mica related to muscovite.
margarone: The ketone of margaric acid.
margarous: Margaric; -- formerly designating a supposed acid. [Obs.]
margate fish: A sparoid fish (Diabasis aurolineatus) of the Gulf of Mexico,esteemed as a food fish; -- called also red-mouth grunt.
margay: An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico toBrazil. It is spotted with black. Called also long-tailed cat.
marge: Border; margin; edge; verge. [Poetic] Tennyson.Along the river's stony marge. Wordsworth.
margent: A margin; border; brink; edge. [Obs.]The beached margent of the sea. Shak.
margin: The difference between the cost and the selling price of anarticle.
marginalia: Marginal notes.
marginally: In the margin of a book.
marginate: Having a margin distinct in appearance or structure.
marginated: Same as Marginate, a.
margined: Bordered with a distinct line of color.
marginella: A genus of small, polished, marine univalve shells, native ofall warm seas.
marginicidal: Dehiscent by the separation of united carpels; -- said offruits.
margosa: A large tree of genus Melia (M. Azadirachta) found in India.Its bark is bitter, and used as a tonic. A valuable oil is expressedfrom its seeds, and a tenacious gum exudes from its trunk. The M.Azedarach is a much more showy tree, and is cultivated in theSouthern United States, where it is known as Pride of India, Pride ofChina, or bead tree. Various parts of the tree are consideredanthelmintic.The margosa oil . . . is a most valuable balsam for wounds, having apeculiar smell which prevents the attacks of flies. Sir S. Baker.
margravine: The wife of a margrave.
marguerite: The daisy (Bellis perennis). The name is often applied also tothe ox-eye daisy and to the China aster. Longfellow.
marian: Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen ofEngland, daughter of Henry VIII.Of all the Marian martyrs, Mr. Philpot was the best-born gentleman.Fuller.Maid Marian. See Maidmarian in the Vocabulary.
marie: Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mariet: A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called ViolaMariana; but it is not a violet.
marigenous: Produced in or by the sea.
marigold: A name for several plants with golden yellow blossoms,especially the Calendula officinalis (see Calendula), and thecultivated species of Tagetes.
marikina: A small marmoset (Midas rosalia); the silky tamarin.
marimba: A musical istrument of percussion, consisting of bars yieldingmusical tones when struck. Knight.
marimonda: A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Central and SouthAmerica.
marinade: A brine or pickle containing wine and spices, for enriching theflavor of meat and fish.
marinate: To salt or pickle, as fish, and then preserve in oil orvinegar; to prepare by the use of marinade.
marine: Formed by the action of the currents or waves of the sea; as,marine deposits. Marine acid (Chem.), hydrochloric acid. [Obs.] --Marine barometer. See under Barometer.-- Marine corps, a corps formed of the officers, noncommissionedofficers, privates, and musicants of marines.-- Marine engine (Mech.), a steam engine for propelling a vessel.-- Marine glue. See under Glue.-- Marine insurance, insurance against the perils of the sea,including also risks of fire, piracy, and barratry.-- Marine interest, interest at any rate agreed on for money lentupon respondentia and bottomry bonds.-- Marine law. See under Law.-- Marine league, three geographical miles.-- Marine metal, an alloy of lead, antimony, and mercury, made forsheathing ships. Mc Elrath.-- Marine soap, cocoanut oil soap; -- so called because, being quitesoluble in salt water, it is much used on shipboard.-- Marine store, a store where old canvas, ropes, etc., are boughtand sold; a junk shop. [Eng.]
marined: Having the lower part of the body like a fish. Crabb.
mariner: One whose occupation is to assist in navigating ships; a seamanor sailor. Chaucer. Mariner's compass. See under Compass.
marinership: Seamanship. [Obs.] Udalt.
marinism: A bombastic literary style marked by the use of metaphors andantitheses characteristic of the Italian poet Giambattista Marini(1569-1625). -- Ma*ri"nist (#), n.
marinorama: A representation of a sea view.
mariolater: One who worships the Virgin Mary.
mariolatry: The worship of the Virgin Mary.
marionette: The buffel duck.
mariposa lily: One of a genus (Calochortus) of tuliplike bulbous herbs withlarge, and often gaycolored, blossoms. Called also butterfly lily.Most of them are natives of California.
mariput: A species of civet; the zoril.
marish: Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor. [Archaic]Milton. Tennyson.
marital: Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties,authority. "Marital affection." Ayliffe.
maritated: Having a husband; married. [Obs.]
marjoram: A genus of mintlike plants (Origanum) comprising about twenty-five species. The sweet marjoram (O. Majorana) is pecularly aromaticand fragrant, and much used in cookery. The wild marjoram of Europeand America is O. vulgare, far less fragrant than the other.
mark: A license of reprisals. See Marque.
markable: Remarkable. [Obs.] Sandys.
marked: Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence;noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a markedinstance.-- Mark"ed*ly, adv. J. S. Mill. A marked man, a man who is noted bya community, or by a part of it, as, for excellence or depravity; --usually with an unfavorable suggestion.
markee: See Marquee.
marker: One who or that which marks. Specifically:(a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards.(b) A counter used in card playing and other games.(c) (Mil.) The soldier who forms the pilot of a wheeling column, ormarks the direction of an alignment.(d) An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on thefabric by creasing it.
market: The privelege granted to a town of having a public market.
marketableness: Quality of being marketable.
marketer: One who attends a market to buy or sell; one who carries goodsto market.
marketstead: A market place. [Obs.] Drayton.
markhoor: A large wild goat (Capra megaceros), having huge flattenedspiral horns. It inhabits the mountains of Northern India andCashmere.
marking: The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marksmade; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, themarking of a bird's plumage. Marking ink, indelible ink, because usedin marking linen.-- Marking nut (Bot.), the nut of the Semecarpus Anacardium, an EastIndian tree. The shell of the nut yields a blackish resinous juiceused for marking cotton cloth, and an oil prepared from it is usedfor rheumatism.
markis: A marquis. [Obs.] Chaucer.
markisesse: A marchioness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
markman: A marksman. [Obs.] Shak.
marksman: One who makes his mark, instead of writing his name, in signingdocuments. Burrill.
marksmanship: Skill of a marksman.
marl: To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecularhitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. Marling spike. (Naut.) Seeunder Marline.
marlaceous: Resembling marl; partaking of the qualities of marl.
marlin: The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa). Applied alsoto the red-breasted godwit (Limosa hæmatica). Hook-billed marlin, acurlew.
marline: A small line composed of two strands a little twisted, used forwinding around ropes and cables, to prevent their being weakened byfretting. Marline spike, Marling spike (Naut.), an iron tool taperingto a point, used to separate the strands of a rope in splicing and inmarling. It has an eye in the thick end to which a lanyard isattached. See Fid. [Written also marlin spike] -- Marline-spike bird.Etym
marlite: A variety of marl.
marlitic: Partaking of the qualites of marlite.
marlpit: Apit where marl is dug.
marlstone: A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with,iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England.
marly: Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; aboundingwith marl.
marmalade: A preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit, as thequince, pear, apple, orange, etc., boiled with sugar, and brought toa jamlike consistence. Marmalade tree (Bot.), a sapotaceous tree(Lucuma mammosa) of the West Indies and Tropical America. It haslarge obovate leaves and an egg-shaped fruit from three to fiveinches long, containing a pleasant-flavored pulp and a single largeseed. The fruit is called marmalade, or natural marmalade, from itsconsistency and flavor.
marmalet: See Marmalade. [Obs.]
marmatite: A ferruginous variety of shalerite or zinc blende, nearly blackin color.
marmolite: A thin, laminated variety of serpentine, usually of a palegreen color.
marmoraceous: Pertaining to, or like, marble.
marmoration: A covering or incrusting with marble; a casing of marble; avariegating so as to resemble marble. [R.]
marmoratum opus: A kind of hard finish for plasterwork, made of plaster of Parisand marble dust, and capable of taking a high polish.
marmorosis: The metamorphism of limestone, that is, its conversion intomarble. Geikie.
marmose: A species of small opossum (Didelphus murina) ranging fromMexico to Brazil.
marmoset: Any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys ofthe genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ. They have long softfur, and a hairy, nonprehensile tail. They are often kept as pets.Called also squirrel monkey.
marmot: Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot(A. marmotta) is about the size of a rabbit, and inhabits the higherregions of the Alps and Pyrenees. The bobac is another Europeanspecies. The common American species (A. monax) is the woodchuck.
marmottes oil: . A fine oil obtained from the kernel of Prunus brigantiaca. Itis used instead of olive or almond oil. De Colange.
marmozet: See Marmoset.
marone: See Maroon, the color.
maronite: One of a body of nominal Christians, who speak the Arabiclanguage, and reside on Mount Lebanon and in different parts ofSyria. They take their name from one Maron of the 6th century.
maroon: In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a freenegro, living in the mountains.
marplot: One who, by his officious
marque: A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary ofa country, for the purpose of making reprisals. Letters of marque,Letters of marque and reprisal, a license or extraordinary commissiongranted by a government to a private person to fit out a privateer orarmed ship to cruise at sea and make prize of the enemy's ships andmerchandise. The ship so commissioned is sometimes called a letter ofmarque.
marquee: A large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officerof high rank. [Written also markee.]
marquess: A marquis. Lady marquess, a marchioness. [Obs.] Shak.
marquetry: Inlaid work; work inlaid with pieces of wood, shells, ivory,and the like, of several colors.
marquis: A nobleman in England, France, and Germany, of a rank nextbelow that of duke. Originally, the marquis was an officer whose dutywas to guard the marches or frontiers of the kingdom. The office hasceased, and the name is now a mere title conferred by patent.
marquisate: The seigniory, dignity, or lordship of a marquis; the territorygoverned by a marquis.
marquisdom: A marquisate. [Obs.] "Nobles of the marquisdom of Saluce."Holinshed.
marquise: The wife of a marquis; a marchioness.
marquisship: A marquisate.
marram: A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea).See Beach grass, under Beach.
marrer: One who mars or injures.
marriable: Marriageable. [R.] Coleridge.
marriageability: The quality or state of being marriageable.
marriageable: Fit for, or capable of, marriage; of an age at which marriageis allowable.-- Mar"riage*a*ble*ness, n.
marrier: One who marries.
marron: A paper or pasteboard box or shell, wound about with strongtwine, filled with an explosive, and ignited with a fuse, -- used tomake a noise like a cannon. [Written also maroon.]
marroon: Same as 1st Maroon.
marrow: The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla.In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smallercavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color.
marrowbone: A bone containing marrow; pl. ludicrously, knee bones or knees;as, to get down on one's marrowbones, i. e., to kneel.
marrowfat: A rich but late variety of pea.
marrowish: Of the nature of, or like, marrow.
marrowless: Destitute of marrow.
marrowy: Full of marrow; pithy.
marrubium: A genus of bitter aromatic plants, sometimes used in medicine;hoarhound.
marry: To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take ahusband or a wife.I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14.Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.]
mars: The god of war and husbandry.
marsala: A kind of wine exported from Marsala in Sicily.
marsdenia: A genus of plants of the Milkweed family, mostly woody climberswith fragrant flowers, several species of which furnish valuablefiber, and one species (Marsdenia tinctoria) affords indigo.
marseilles: A general term for certain kinds of fabrics, which are formedof two series of threads interlacing each other, thus forming doublecloth, quilted in the loom; -- so named because first made inMarseilles, France.
marsh: A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or whollywith water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marshasphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitantleaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bogasphodel.-- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) havingpurple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five-finger.-- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree(Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrubgrowing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).-- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).-- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.-- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growingin marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides isnot good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a commoncomponent of salt hay.-- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circusæruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard,puttock.-- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus),native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above,with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) Themarsh harrier.-- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-watermarshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.-- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A.officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root ismuch used in medicine as a demulcent.-- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.-- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genusHydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; -- called also water pennywort.-- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.-- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S.Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent,and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.-- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found alongseacoasts. See Glasswort.-- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica)with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.-- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.-- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.-- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of thegenus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit saltmarshes.
marsh marigold: . (Bot.) A perennial plant of the genus Caltha (C. palustris),growing in wet places and bearing bright yellow flowers. In theUnited States it is used as a pot herb under the name of cowslip. SeeCowslip.
marshal: To dispose in due order, as the different quarterings on anescutcheon, or the different crests when several belong to anachievement.
marshaler: One who marshals.
marshaling: The arrangement of an escutcheon to exhibit the alliances ofthe owner. Marshaling of assets (Law), the arranging or ranking ofassets in due order of administration.
marshalsea: The court or seat of a marshal; hence, the prison in Southwark,belonging to the marshal of the king's household. [Eng.] Court ofMarshalsea, a court formerly held before the steward and marshal ofthe king's house to administer justice between the king's domesticservants. Blackstone.
marshalship: The office of a marshal.
marshiness: The state or condition of being marshy.
marsipobranch: One of the Marsipobranchia.
marsipobranchia: A class of Vertebrata, lower than fishes, characterized bytheir purselike gill cavities, cartilaginous skeletons, absence oflimbs, and a suckerlike mouth destitute of jaws. It includes thelampreys and hagfishes. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey. Called alsoMarsipobranchiata, and Marsipobranchii.
marsupial: Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of orpertaining to the Marsupialia.
marsupialia: A subclass of Mammalia, including nearly all the mammals ofAustralia and the adjacent islands, together with the opossums ofAmerica. They differ from ordinary mammals in having the corpuscallosum very small, in being implacental, and in having their youngborn while very immature. The female generally carries the young forsome time after birth in an external pouch, or marsupium. Called alsoMarsupiata.
marsupiate: Related to or resembling the marsupials; furnished with a pouchfor the young, as the marsupials, and also some fishes and Crustacea.
marsupion: Same as Marsupium.
marsupite: A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse inform.
mart: To buy or sell in, or as in, a mart. [Obs.]To sell and mart your officer for gold To undeservers. Shak.
martagon: A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found inEurope and Asia.
martel: To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. [Obs.] Spenser.
martel de fer: A weapon resembling a hammer, often having one side of the headpointed; -- used by horsemen in the Middle Ages to break armor.Fairholt.
marteline: A small hammer used by marble workers and sculptors.
martello tower: A building of masonry, generally circular, usually erected onthe seacoast, with a gun on the summit mounted on a traversingplatform, so as to be fired in any direction.
marten: A bird. See Martin.
martern: Same as Marten. [Obs.]
martial: Pertaining to, or containing, iron; chalybeate; as, martialpreparations. [Archaic] Martial flowers (Med.), a reddish crystallinesalt of iron; the ammonio-chloride of iron. [Obs.] -- Martial law,the law administered by the military power of a government when ithas superseded the civil authority in time of war, or when the civilauthorities are unable to enforce the laws. It is distinguished frommilitary law, the latter being the code of rules for the regulationof the army and navy alone, either in peace or in war.
martialism: The quality of being warlike; exercises suitable for war.[Obs.]
martialist: A warrior. [Obs.] Fuller.
martialize: To render warlike; as, to martialize a people.
martially: In a martial manner.
martialness: The quality of being martial.
martian: Of or pertaining to Mars, the Roman god of war, or to theplanet bearing his name; martial.
martin: A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding.
martinet: In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, onewho lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, orto forms and fixed methods. [Hence, the word is commonly employed ina depreciatory sense.]
martineta: A species of tinamou (Calopezus elegans), having a long slendercrest.
martinetism: The principles or practices of a martinet; rigid adherence todiscipline, etc.
martinmas: The feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- oftencalled martlemans. Martinmas summer, a period of calm, warm weatheroften experienced about the time of Martinmas; Indian summer. PercySmith.
martite: Iron sesquioxide in isometric form, probably a pseudomorphafter magnetite.
martlemas: See Martinmas. [Obs.]
martlet: The European house martin.
martyrization: Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture. B.Jonson.
martyrize: To make a martyr of. Spenser.
martyrly: In the manner of a martyr.
martyrologe: A martyrology. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
martyrologist: A writer of martyrology; an historian of martyrs. T. Warton.
martyrology: A history or account of martyrs; a register of martyrs. Bp.Stillingfleet.
martyrship: Martyrdom. [R.] Fuller.
marvel: To be struck with surprise, astonishment, or wonder; to wonder.Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 1 john iii. 13.
marvelously: In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely.
marvelousness: The quality or state of being marvelous; wonderfulness;strangeness.
marver: A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass isrolled to give it shape.
mary: Marrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mary-bud: The marigold; a blossom of the marigold. Shak.
maryolatry: Mariolatry.
marysole: A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); --called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.
mascle: A lozenge voided.
mascled: Composed of, or covered with, lozenge-shaped scales; havinglozenge-shaped divisions. Mascled armor, armor composed of smalllozenge-shaped scales of metal fastened on a foundation of leather orquilted cloth.
masculate: To make strong. [Obs.] Cockeram.
masculine: Having the inflections of, or construed with, words pertainingespecially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and neuter.See Gender.-- Mas"cu*line*ly, adv.-- Mas"cu*line*ness, n.
masculinity: The state or quality of being masculine; masculineness.
mase: See Maze. [Obs.] Chaucer.
maselyn: A drinking cup. See 1st Maslin, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer.
maser: Same as Mazer.
mash: A mesh. [Obs.]
masher: A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightlymore lofted, used chiefly for short approaches.
mashlin: See Maslin.
mashy: Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of,a mash.
mask: A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and otherprominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- calledalso mascaron.
mask shell: Any spiral marine shell of the genus Persona, having acuriously twisted aperture.
masked: Same as Personate.
masker: One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at amasquerade.
maskery: The dress or disguise of a maske [Obs.] Marston.
maskinonge: The muskellunge.
maslach: An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks.Dunglison.
maslin: Composed of different sorts; as, maslin bread, which is made ofrye mixed with a little wheat. [Written also meslin, mislin, etc.]
mason: To build stonework or brickwork about, under, in, over, etc.;to construct by masons; -- with a prepositional suffix; as, to masonup a well or terrace; to mason in a kettle or boiler.
masonic: Of or pertaining to Freemasons or to their craft or mysteries.
masoola boat: . A kind of boat used on the coast of Madras, India. The planksare sewed together with strands of coir which cross over a wadding ofthe same material, so that the shock on taking the beach through surfis much reduced. [Written also masula, masulah, etc.]
masora: A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures,composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in theeighth and ninth centuries. [Written also Masorah, Massora, andMassorah.]
masoret: A Masorite. [Written also Masorete, and Massorete.]
masorite: One of the writers of the Masora.
masque: A mask; a masquerade.
masquerade: To conceal with masks; to disguise. "To masquerade vice."Killingbeck.
masquerader: One who masquerades; a person wearing a mask; one disguised.
mass: The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or theconsecration and oblation of the host.
massacre: To kill in considerable numbers where much resistance can notbe made; to kill with indiscriminate violence, without necessity, andcontrary to the usages of nations; to butcher; to slaughter; --limited to the killing of human beings.If James should be pleased to massacre them all, as Maximian hadmassacred the Theban legion. Macaulay.
massacrer: One who massacres. [R.]
massage: A rubbing or kneading of the body, especially when performed asa hygienic or remedial measure.
massagist: One who practices massage; a masseur or masseuse.
massasauga: The black rattlesnake (Crotalus, or Caudisona, tergemina),found in the Mississippi Valley.
masser: A priest who celebrates Mass. [R.] Bale.
masseter: The large muscle which raises the under jaw, and assists inmastication.
masseteric: Of or pertaining to the masseter.
masseterine: Masseteric.
massicot: Lead protoxide, PbO, obtained as a yellow amorphous powder, thefused and crystalline form of which is called litharge; lead ocher.It is used as a pigment.
massiness: The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness.
massive: In mass; not necessarily without a crystalline structure, buthaving no regular form; as, a mineral occurs massive. Massive rock(Geol.), a compact crystalline rock not distinctly schistone, asgranite; also, with some authors, an eruptive rock.
massively: In a heavy mass.
massiveness: The state or quality of being massive; massiness.
massoola boat: See Masoola boat.
massora: Same as Masora.
massoret: Same as Masorite.
massy: Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk andweight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, amassy shield; a massy rock.Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not beuplifted. Shak.Yawning rocks in massy fragments fly. Pope.
mast: The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts;acorns.Oak mast, and beech, . . . they eat. Chapman.Swine under an oak filling themselves with the mast. South.
masted: Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as,a three-masted schooner.
master: A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as,a two-master.
master vibrator: In an internal-combustion engine with two or more cylinders, aninduction coil and vibrator placed in the circuit between the batteryor magneto and the coils for the different cylinders, which are usedwithout vibrators of their own.
masterdom: Dominion; rule; command. [R.] Shak.
masterfully: In a masterful manner; imperiously.A lawless and rebellious man who held lands masterfully and in highcontempt of the royal authority. Macaulay.
masterhood: The state of being a master; hence, disposition to command orhector. C. Bronté.
masterless: Destitute of a master or owner; ungoverned or ungovernable.-- Mas"ter*less*ness, n.
masterliness: The quality or state of being masterly; ability to controlwisely or skillfully.
masterly: With the skill of a master.Thou dost speak masterly. Shak.
masterous: Masterly. [Obs.] Milton.
masterpiece: Anything done or made with extraordinary skill; a capitalperformance; a chef-d'oeuvre; a supreme achievement.The top and masterpiece of art. South.Dissimulation was his masterpiece. Claredon.
mastersinger: One of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and someother cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries. They boundthemselves to observe certain arbitrary laws of rhythm.
mastful: Abounding in mast; producing mast in abundance; as, the mastfulforest; a mastful chestnut. Dryden.
masthead: The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds.
masthouse: A building in which vessels' masts are shaped, fitted, etc.
mastic: A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus),growing upon the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, andproducing a valuable resin; -- called also, mastic tree.
masticable: Capable of being masticated.
masticador: A part of a bridle, the slavering bit. [Written alsomastigador.]
masticate: To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare forswallowing and digestion; to chew; as, to masticate food.
masticater: One who masticates.
mastication: The act or operation of masticating; chewing, as of food.Mastication is a necessary preparation of solid aliment, withoutwhich there can be no good digestion. Arbuthnot.
masticatory: Chewing; adapted to perform the office o
mastich: See Mastic.
masticin: A white, amorphous, tenacious substance resembling caoutchouc,and obtained as an insoluble residue of mastic.
masticot: Massicot. [Obs.]
mastiff: A breed of large dogs noted for strength and courage. There arevarious strains, differing in form and color, and characteristic ofdifferent countries. Mastiff bat (Zoöl.) , any bat of the genusMolossus; so called because the face somewhat resembles that of amastiff.
mastigopod: One of the Mastigopoda.
mastigopoda: The Infusoria.
mastigure: Any one of several large spiny-tailed lizards of the genusUromastix. They inhabit Southern Asia and North Africa.
masting: The act or process of putting a mast or masts into a vessel;also, the scientific principles which determine the position ofmasts, and the mechanical methods of placing them. Masting house(Naut.), a large building, with suitable mechanism overhanging thewater, used for stepping and unstepping the masts of vessels.
mastitis: Inflammation of the breast.
mastless: Bearing no mast; as, a mastless oak or beech. Dryden.
mastlin: See Maslin.
mastodon: An extinct genus of mammals closely allied to the elephant, buthaving less complex molar teeth, and often a pair of lower, as wellas upper, tusks, which are incisor teeth. The species were mostlylarger than elephants, and their romains occur in nearly all parts ofthe world in deposits ranging from Miocene to late Quaternary time.
mastodonsaurus: A large extinct genus of labyrinthodonts, found in the EuropeanTriassic rocks.
mastodontic: Pertaining to, or resembling, a mastodon; as, mastodonticdimensions. Everett.
mastoidal: Same as Mastoid.
mastoiditis: Inflammation in the mastoid process of the temporal bone.
mastology: The natural history of Mammalia.
mastress: Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer.
masturbation: Onanism; self-pollution.
masty: Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc.
masula boat: Same as Masoola boat.
mat: A name given by coppersmiths to an alloy of copper, tin, iron,etc., usually called white metal. [Written also matt.]
matachin: An old dance with swords and bucklers; a sword dance.
mataco: The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust.under Loricata.
matagasse: A shrike or butcher bird; -- called also mattages. [Prov. Eng.]
matajuelo: A large squirrel fish (Holocentrus ascensionis) of Florida andthe West Indies.
matajuelo blanco: A West Indian food fish (Malacanthus plumieri) related to thetilefish.
matamata: The bearded tortoise (Chelys fimbriata) of South Americanrivers.
matanza: A place where animals are slaughtered for their hides andtallow. [Western U. S.]
match: Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire,made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burningsome time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end ina substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparationof phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. Match box, a box for holdingmatches.-- Match tub, a tub with a perforated cover for holding slow matchesfor firing cannon, esp. on board ship. The tub contains a littlewater in the bottom, for extinguishing sparks from the lightedmatches.-- Quick match, threads of cotton or cotton wick soaked in asolution of gunpowder mixed with gum arabic and boiling water andafterwards strewed over with mealed powder. It burns at the rate ofone yard in thirteen seconds, and is used as priming for heavymortars, fireworks, etc.-- Slow match, slightly twisted hempen rope soaked in a solution oflimewater and saltpeter or washed in a lye of water and wood ashes.It burns at the rate of four or five inches an hour, and is used forfiring cannon, fireworks, etc.
match game: A game arranged as a test of superiority; also, one of a seriesof such games.
match play: Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the holes wonor lost by each side; -- disting. from medal play.
match-cloth: A coarse cloth.
match-coat: A coat made of match-cloth.
matchable: Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions;adapted to being joined together; correspondent.-- Match"a*ble*ness, n.Sir Walter Raleigh . . . is matchable with the best of the ancients.Hakewill.
matcher: One who, or that which, matches; a matching machine. See under3d Match.
matchlock: An old form of gunlock containing a match for firing thepriming; hence, a musket fired by means of a match.
matchmaking: Busy in making or contriving marriages; as, a matchmakingwoman.
mate: The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly(Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with anagreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America.
matelasse: Ornamented by means of an imitation or suggestion of quilting,the surface being marked by depressed lines which form squares orlozenges in relief; as, matelassé silks.
mateless: Having no mate.
matelote: A dish of food composed of many kings of fish.
mateology: A vain, unprofitable discourse or inquiry. [R.]
mateotechny: Any unprofitable science. [Obs.]
mater: See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater.
material: Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the form, of a thing.See Matter. Material cause. See under Cause.-- Material evidence (Law), evidence which conduces to the proof ordisproof of a relevant hypothesis. Wharton.
materialist: Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the natureof materialism.But to me his very spiritualism seemed more materialistic than hisphysics. C. Kingsley.
materialization: The act of materializing, or the state of being materialized.
materialize: To make visable in, or as in, a material form; -- said ofspirits.A female spirit form temporarily materialized, and notdistinguishable from a human being. Epes Sargent.
materialness: The state of being material.
materiarian: See Materialist. [Obs.]
materiation: Act of forming matter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
materiel: That in a complex system which constitutes the materials, orinstruments employed, in distinction from the personnel, or men; as,the baggage, munitions, provisions, etc., of an army; or thebuildings, libraries, and apparatus of a college, in distinction fromits officers.
materious: See Material. [Obs.]
maternal: Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly;as, maternal love; maternal tenderness.
maternally: In a motherly manner.
maternity: The state of being a mother; the character or relation of amother.
matfelon: The knapweed (Centaurea nigra).
math: A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly usedin composition; as, an aftermath. [Obs.]The first mowing thereof, for the king's use, is wont to be soonerthan the common math. Bp. Hall.
mathematic: See Mathematical.
mathematical: Of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics;hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography;mathematical instruments; mathematical exactness.-- Math`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
mathematician: One versed in mathematics.
mathematics: That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exactrelations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of themethods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantitiessought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; thescience of spatial and quantitative relations.
mather: See Madder.
mathes: The mayweed. Cf. Maghet.
mathesis: Learning; especially, mathematics. [R.] Pope.
mathurin: See Trinitarian.
matico: A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to thepepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent.
matie: A fat herring with undeveloped roe. [Written also matty.] [Eng.& Scot.]
matin: A French mastiff.
matinal: Relating to the morning, or to matins; matutinal.
matinee: A reception, or a musical or dramatic entertainment, held inthe daytime. See SoirÉe.
matrass: A round-bottomed glass flask having a long neck; a bolthead.
matress: See Matress.
matriarch: The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a rulerby maternal right.
matriarchal: Of or pertaining to a matriarch; governed by a matriarch.
matriarchate: The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal formof government.
matrice: See Matrix.
matricidal: Of or pertaining to matricide.
matricide: One who murders one's own mother.
matriculate: To enroll; to enter in a register; specifically, to enter oradmit to membership in a body or society, particularly in a collegeor university, by enrolling the name in a register.In discovering and matriculating the arms of commissaries from NorthAmerica. Sir W. Scott.
matriculation: The act or process of matriculating; the state of beingmatriculated.
matrimoine: Matrimony. [Obs.]
matrimonial: Of or pertaining to marriage; derived from marriage; connubial;nuptial; hymeneal; as, matrimonial rights or duties.If he relied upon that title, he could be but a king at courtesy, andhave rather a matrimonial than a regal power. Bacon.
matrimonially: In a matrimonial manner.
matrimonious: Matrimonial. [R.] Milton.
matrix: The womb.All that openeth the matrix is mine. Ex. xxxiv. 19.
matronal: Of or pertaining to a matron; suitable to an elderly lady or toa married woman; grave; motherly.
matronhood: The state of being a matron.
matronlike: Like a matron; sedate; grave; matronly.
matronymic: See Metronymic.
matross: Formerly, in the British service, a gunner or a gunner's mate;one of the soldiers in a train of artillery, who assisted the gunnersin loading, firing, and sponging the guns. [Obs.]
matt: See Matte. Knight.
mattages: A shrike or butcher bird; -- written also matagasse. [Prov.Eng.]
mattamore: A subterranean repository for wheat.
matte: A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternatelyroasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal fromassociated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc.,according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brownor black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color.
matted: Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf orgilding. Matted glass, glass ornamented with figures on a dullground.
matter: That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in orupon which changes are effected by psychological or physicalprocesses and relations; -- opposed to form. Mansel.
matter-of-fact: Adhering to facts; not turning aside from absolute realities;not fanciful or imaginative; commonplace; dry.
matting: A dull, lusterless surface in certain of the arts, as gilding,metal work, glassmaking, etc.
mattock: An implement for digging and grubbing. The head has two longsteel blades, one like an adz and the other like a narrow ax or thepoint of a pickax.'T is you must dig with mattock and with spade. Shak.
mattoid: A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity ordegeneracy.
mattoir: A kind of coarse punch with a rasplike face, used for making arough surface on etching ground, or on the naked copper, the effectafter biting being very similar to stippled lines.
mattowacca: An American clupeoid fish (Clupea mediocris), similar to theshad in habits and appearance, but smaller and less esteemed forfood; -- called also hickory shad, tailor shad, fall herring, andshad herring.
mattress: A mass of interwoven brush, poles, etc., to protect a bank frombeing worn away by currents or waves.
maturant: A medicine, or application, which promotes suppuration.
maturate: To ripen; to become mature; specif
maturation: The process of bringing, or of coming, to maturity; hence,specifically, the process of suppurating perfectly; the formation ofpus or matter.
maturative: Conducing to ripeness or maturity; hence, conducing tosuppuration.
mature: To bring or hasten to maturity; to promote ripeness in; toripen; to complete; as, to mature one's plans. Bacon.
matureness: The state or quality of being mature; maturity.
maturer: One who brings to maturity.
maturescent: Approaching maturity.
maturing: Approaching maturity; as, maturing fruits; maturing notes ofhand.
matutinal: Of or pertaining to the morning; early.
matutinary: Matutinal. [R.]
matutine: Matutinal. [R.]
matweed: A name of several maritime grasses, as the sea sand-reed(Ammophila arundinacea) which is used in Holland to bind the sand ofthe seacoast dikes (see Beach grass, under Beach); also, the LygeumSpartum, a Mediterranean grass of similar habit.
maty: A native house servant in India. Balfour (Cyc. of India).
matzoth: A cake of unleavened bread eaten by the Jews at the feast ofthe Passover.
maucaco: A lemur; -- applied to several species, as the White-fronted,the ruffed, and the ring-tailed lemurs.
maud: A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland.
maudle: To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin. [Obs.]
maudlin: An aromatic composite herb, the costmary; also, the SouthEuropean Achillea Ageratum, a kind of yarrow.
maudlinism: A maudlin state. Dickens.
maudlinwort: The oxeye daisy.
maugre: To defy. [Obs.] J. Webster.
maukin: A hare. [Scot.]
maul: A heavy wooden hammer or beetle. [Written also mall.]
maul-stick: A stick used by painters as a rest for the hand while working.[Written also mahl-stick.]
maule: The common mallow.
mauling: A severe beating with a stick, cudgel, or the fist.
maumet: See Mawmet. [Obs.] Chaucer.
maunch: To munch. [Obs.]
maund: A hand basket. [Obs.] Herrick.
maunder: To utter in a grumbling manner; to mutter.
maunderer: One who maunders.
maundril: A pick with two prongs, to pry with.
maundy thursday: The Thursday in Passion week, or next before Good Friday.
maungy: Mangy. [Obs.] Skelton.
mauresque: See Moresque.
maurist: A member of the Congregation of Saint Maur, an offshoot of theBenedictines, originating in France in the early part of theseventeenth century. The Maurists have been distinguished for theirinterest in literature.
mausolean: Pertaining to a mausoleum; monumental.
mausoleum: A magnificent tomb, or stately sepulchral monument.
mauther: A girl; esp., a great, awkward girl; a wench. [Prov. Eng.]
mauvaniline: See Mauve aniline, under Mauve.
mauve: A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac. Mauve aniline(Chem.), a dyestuff produced artificially by the oxidation ofcommercial aniline, and the first discovered of the so-called coal-tar, or aniline, dyes. It consists of the sulphate of mauveïne, andis a dark brown or bronze amorphous powder, which dissolves to abeatiful purple color. Called also aniline purple, violine, etc.
mauveine: An artificial organic base, obtained by oxidizing a mixture ofaniline and toluidine, and valuable for the dyestuffs it forms.[Written also mauvine.]
mauvine: Mauve-colored.
maverick: In the southwestern part of the united States, a bullock orheifer that has not been branded, and is unclaimed or wild; -- saidto be from Maverick, the name of a cattle owner in Texas whonaglected to brand his cattle.
maverick brand: A brand originated by a dishonest cattleman, who, withoutowning any stock, gradually accumulates a herd by finding mavericks.[Western U. S.]
mavis: The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus).
maw: A gull.
mawkin: See Malkin, and Maukin.
mawkingly: Slatternly. [Obs.]
mawkishly: In a mawkish way.
mawkishness: The quality or state of being mawkish. J. H. Newman.
mawks: A slattern; a mawk. [Prov. Eng.]
mawky: Maggoty. [Prov. Eng.]
mawmet: A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the MiddleAges it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped imagesrepresenting Mohammed. [Obs.] Wyclif. Beau. & Fl.
mawmetry: The religion of Mohammed; also, idolatry. See Mawmet. [Obs.]Chaucer.
mawmish: Nauseous. [Obs.] L' Estrange.
mawseed: The seed of the opium poppy.
maxilla: One of the lower or outer jaws of arthropods.
maxilliform: Having the form, or structure, of a maxilla.
maxilliped: One of the mouth appendages of Crustacea, situated next behindthe maxillæ. Crabs have three pairs, but many of the lower Crustaceahave but one pair of them. Called also jawfoot, and foot jaw.
maxillo-mandibular: Pertaining to the maxilla and mandible; as, the maxillo-mandibular nerve.
maxillo-palatine: Pertaining to the maxillary and palatine regions of the skull;as, the maxillo-palatine process of the maxilla. Also used as n.
maxilloturbinal: Pertaining to the maxillary and turbinal regions of the skull.-- n.
maxim: The longest note formerly used, equal to two longs, or fourbreves; a large.
maxim gun: A kind of machine gun; -- named after its inventor, Hiram S.Maxim.
maximilian: A gold coin of Bavaria, of the value of about 13s. 6d.sterling, or about three dollars and a quarter.
maximization: The act or process of increasing to the highest degree.Bentham.
maximize: To increase to the highest degree. Bentham.
maximum: The greatest quantity or value attainable in a given case; or,the greatest value attained by a quantity which first increases andthen begins to decrease; the highest point or degree; -- opposed toAnt
may: An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, byexpressing
maya: The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called,in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion.
mayan: A form of corbel arch employing regular small corbels.
maybe: Perhaps; possibly; peradventure.Maybe the amorous count solicits her. Shak.In a liberal and, maybe, somewhat reckless way. Tylor.
maybloom: The hawthorn.
maybush: The hawthorn.
mayduke: A large dark-red cherry of excellent quality.
mayfish: A common American minnow (Fundulus majalis). See Minnow.
mayflower: In England, the hawthorn; in New England, the trailing arbutus(see Arbutus); also, the blossom of these plants.
mayhap: Perhaps; peradventure. [Prov. or Dialectic]
mayhem: The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any ofhis members which are necessary for defense or protection. See Maim.
maying: The celebrating of May Day. "He met her once a-Maying." Milton.
mayonnaise: A sauce compounded of raw yolks of eggs beaten up with oliveoil to the consistency of a sirup, and seasoned with vinegar, pepper,salt, etc.; -- used in dressing salads, fish, etc. Also, a dishdressed with this sauce.
mayor: The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer ofa municipal corporation. In some American cities there is a citycourt of which the major is chief judge.
mayoral: The conductir of a mule team; also, a head shepherd.
mayoralty: The office, or the term of office, of a mayor.
mayoress: The wife of a mayor.
mayorship: The office of a mayor.
maypole: A tall pole erected in an open place and wreathed with flowers,about which the rustic May-day sports were had.
maypop: The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of theNorth American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as largeas a small apple.
mayweed: A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus) which inhabits theRocky Mountains, frequenting the highest parts; -- called alsomountain goat.
mazard: A kind of small black cherry.
mazarine: Of or pertaining to Cardinal Mazarin, prime minister of France,1643-1661. Mazarine Bible, the first Bible, and perhaps the firstcomplete book, printed with movable metal types; -- printed byGutenberg at Mentz, 1450-55; -- so called because a copy was found inthe Mazarine Library, at Paris, about 1760.-- Mazarine blue, a deep blue color, named in honor of CardinalMazarin.
mazdean: Of or pertaining to Ahura-Mazda, or Ormuzd, the beneficentdeity in the Zoroastrian dualistic system; hence, Zoroastrian.
mazdeism: The Zoroastrian religion.
maze: To perplex greatly; to bewilder; to astonish and confuse; toamaze. South.
mazedness: The condition of being mazed; confusion; astonishment. [Obs.]Chaucer.
mazeful: Mazy. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
mazer: A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple. [Obs.]Their brimful mazers to the feasting bring. Drayton.
mazily: In a mazy manner.
maziness: The state or quality of being mazy.
mazological: Of or pertaining to mazology.
mazologist: One versed in mazology or mastology.
mazology: Same as Mastology.
mazy: Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate;confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. Milton.To range amid the mazy thicket. Spenser.To run the ring, and trace the mazy round. Dryden.
me: One. See Men, pron. [Obs.] Chaucer.
meach: To skulk; to cower. See Mich.
meacock: An uxorious, effeminate, or spiritless man. [Obs.] Johnson.
mead: A meadow.A mede All full of freshe flowers, white and reede. Chaucer.To fertile vales and dewy meads My weary, wandering steps he leads.Addison.
meadow: Of or pertaining to a meadow; of the nature of a meadow;produced, growing, or living in, a meadow. "Fat meadow ground."Milton.
meadowy: Of or pertaining to meadows; resembling, or consisting of,meadow.
meagre: A large European sciænoid fish (Sciæna umbra or S. aquila),having white bloodless flesh. It is valued as a food fish. [Writtenalso maigre.]
meak: A hook with a long handle. [Obs.] Tusser.
meaking: The process of picking out the oakum from the seams of a vesselwhich is to be recalked. Meaking iron (Naut.), the tool with whichold oakum is picked out of a vessel's seams.
meal: A part; a fragment; a portion. [Obs.]
meal-mouthed: See Mealy-mouthed.
mealies: Maize or Indian corn; -- the common name in South Africa.
mealiness: The quality or state of being mealy.
mealtime: The usual time of eating a meal.
mealy-mouthed: Using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate ofspeech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language. "Mealy-mouthedphilanthropies." Tennyson.She was a fool to be mealy-mouthed where nature speaks so plain.L'Estrange.-- Meal"y-mouth`ness, n.
mean: To have a purpose or intention. [Rare, except in the phrase tomean well, or ill.] Shak.
mean-spirited: Of a mean spirit; base; groveling.-- Mean"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.
meander: Fretwork. See Fret.
meandrian: Winding; having many turns.
meandrina: A genus of corals with meandering grooves and ridges, includingthe brain corals.
meanly: Moderately. [Obs.]A man meanly learned himself, but not meanly affectioned to setforward learning in others. Ascham.
meant: of Mean.
mear: A boundary. See Mere. [Obs.]
mease: Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings. [Prov. Eng.]
measelry: Leprosy. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.
measle: A leper. [Obs.] [Written also meazel, and mesel.] Wyclif (Matt.x. 8. ).
measled: Infected or spotted with measles, as pork.-- Mea"sled*ness, n.
measles: Leprosy; also, a leper. [Obs.]
measly: Containing larval tapeworms; -- said of pork and beef.
measure: The space between two bars. See Beat, Triple, Quadruple,Sextuple, Compound time, under Compound, a., and Figure.(c) (Poetry) The manner of ordering and combining the quantities, orlong and short syllables; meter; rhythm; hence, a foot; as, a poem iniambic measure.
measured: Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform;graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; heexpressed himself in no measured terms.-- Meas"ured*ly, adv.
measureless: Without measure; unlimited; immeasurable.-- Meas"ure*less*ness, n.
measurer: One who measures; one whose occupation or duty is to measurecommondities in market.
measuring: Used in, or adapted for, ascertaining measurements, or dividingby measure. Measuring faucet, a faucet which permits only a givenquantity of liquid to pass each time it is opened, or one by means ofwhich the liquid which passes can be measured.-- Measuring worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any geometrid moth. SeeGeometrid.
meat: To supply with food. [Obs.] Tusser.His shield well lined, his horses meated well. Chapman.
meatal: Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus. Owen.
meated: A sweet liquor; mead. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton.
meatiness: Quality of being meaty.
meatless: Having no meat; without food."Leave these beggars meatless." Sir T. More.
meatoscope: A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra.
meatotome: An instrument for cutting into the urethra so as to enlarge itsorifice.
meatus: A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus.See Illust. of Ear.
meaty: Abounding in meat.
meaw: The sea mew. [Obs.] Spenser.
meawl: See Mewl, and Miaul.
meazel: See 1st Measle. [Obs.]
meazling: Falling in small drops; mistling; mizzing. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.
mebles: See Moebles. [Obs.]
mecate: A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc.[Southwestern U. S.]
meccawee: Of or pertaining to Mecca, in Arabia.-- n.
mechanical: A mechanic. [Obs.] Shak.
mechanicalize: To cause to become mechanical.
mechanically: In a mechanical manner.
mechanicalness: The state or quality of being mechanical.
mechanician: One skilled in the theory or construction of machines; amachinist. Boyle.
mechanico-chemical: Pertaining to, connected with, or dependent upon, bothmechanics and chemistry; -- said especially of those sciences whichtreat of such phenomena as seem to depend on the laws both ofmechanics and chemistry, as electricity and magnetism.
mechanics: That science, or branch of applied mathematics, which treats ofthe action of forces on bodies.
mechanism: An ideal machine; a combination of movable bodies constitutinga machine, but considered only with regard to relative movements.
mechanize: To cause to be mechanical. Shelley.
mechanograph: One of a number of copies of anything multiplied mechanically.
mechanographist: An artist who, by mechanical means, multiplies copies of worksof art.
mechanography: The art of mechanically multiplying copies of a writing, or anywork of art.
mechanurgy: That branch of science which treats of moving machines.
mechitarist: One of a religious congregation of the Roman Catholic Churchdevoted to the improvement of Armenians.
mechlin: A kind of lace made at, or originating in, Mechlin, in Belgium.
mechoacan: A species of jalap, of very feeble properties, said to beobtained from the root of a species of Convolvulus (C. Mechoacan); --so called from Michoacan, in Mexico, whence it is obtained.
meckelian: Pertaining to, or discovered by, J. F. Meckel, a Germananatomist. Meckelian cartilage, the cartilaginous rod which forms theaxis of the mandible; -- called also Meckel's cartilage.
meconate: A salt of meconic acid.
meconic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the poppy or opium; specif.(Chem.), designating an acid related to aconitic acid, found in opiumand extracted as a white crystalline substance.
meconidine: An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a yellow amorphoussubstance which is easily decomposed.
meconidium: A kind of gonophore produced by hydroids of the genusGonothyræa. It has tentacles, and otherwise resembles a free medusa,but remains attached by a pedicel.
meconin: A substance regarded as an anhydride of meconinic acid,existing in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance.Also erroneously called meconina, meconia, etc., as though it were analkaloid.
meconinic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which occurs in opium,and which may be obtained by oxidizing narcotine.
medal: A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device,and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or anillustrious person, or to serve as a reward.
medal play: Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the number ofstrokes.
medalet: A small medal.
medallic: Of or pertaining to a medal, or to medals. "Our medallichistory." Walpole.
medalurgy: The art of making and striking medals and coins. [Written alsomedallurgy.]
meddle: To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] Chaucer."Wine meddled with gall." Wyclif (Matt. xxvii. 34).
meddler: One who meddles; one who interferes or busies himself withthings in which he has no concern; an officious person; a busybody.
meddlesome: Given to meddling; apt to interpose in the affairs of others;officiously intrusive.-- Med"dle*some*ness, n.
meddling: Meddlesome. Macaulay.
meddlingly: In a meddling manner.
mede: A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia.
media: pl. of Medium.
mediacy: The state or quality of being mediate. Sir W. Hamilton.
mediaeval: Of or relating to the Middle Ages; as, mediæval architecture.[Written also medieval.]
mediaevalism: The method or spirit of the Middle Ages; devotion to theinstitutions and practices of the Middle Ages; a survival from theMiddle Ages. [Written also medievalism.]
mediaevalist: One who has a taste for, or is versed in, the history of theMiddle Ages; one in sympathy with the spirit or forms of the MiddleAges. [Written also medievalist.]
mediaevally: In the manner of the Middle Ages; in accordance withmediævalism.
mediaevals: The people who lived in the Middle Ages. Ruskin.
medial: Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medialalligation.
medialuna: See Half-moon.
median: Situated in the middle; lying in a plane dividing a bilateralanimal into right and left halves; -- said of unpaired organs andparts; as, median coverts. Median line. (a) (Anat.) Any line in themesial plane; specif., either of the lines in which the mesial planemeets the surface of the body. (b) (Geom.) The line drawn from anangle of a triangle to the middle of the opposite side; any linehaving the nature of a diameter.-- Median plane (Anat.), the mesial plane.-- Median point (Geom.), the point where the three median lines of atriangle mutually intersect.
mediant: The third above the keynote; -- so called because it dividesthe interval between the tonic and dominant into two thirds.
mediastinal: Of or pertaining to a mediastinum.
mediately: In a mediate manner; by a secondary cause or agent; notdirectly or primarily; by means; -- opposed to immediately.God worketh all things amongst us mediately. Sir W. Raleigh.The king grants a manor to A, and A grants a portion of it to B. Inthis case. B holds his lands immediately of A, but mediately of theking. Blakstone.
mediateness: The state of being mediate.
mediative: Pertaining to mediation; used in mediation; as, mediativeefforts. Beaconsfield.
mediatization: The act of mediatizing.
mediatize: To cause to act through an agent or to hold a subordinateposition; to annex; -- specifically applied to the annexation duringthe former German empire of a smaller German state to a larger, whileallowing it a nominal sovereignty, and its prince his rank.The misfortune of being a mediatized prince. Beaconsfield.
mediator: One who mediates; especially, one who interposes betweenparties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, anintercessor.For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the manChrist Jesus. 1 Tim. ii. 5.
mediatorial: Of or pertaining to a mediator, or to mediation; mediatory; as,a mediatorial office.-- Me`di*a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.My measures were . . . healing and mediatorial. Burke.
mediatorship: The office or character of a mediator.
mediatory: Mediatorial.
medic: A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic isthe Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa.
medicable: Capable of being medicated; admitting of being cured or healed.
medically: In a medical manner; with reference to healing, or to theprinciples of the healing art.
medicament: Anything used for healing diseases or wounds; a medicine; ahealing application.
medicamental: Of or pertaining to medicaments or healing applications; havingthe qualities of medicaments.-- Med`ica*men"tal*ly, adv.
medicaster: A quack. [R.] Whitlock.
medication: The act or process of medicating.
medicative: Medicinal; acting like a medicine.
medicean: Of or relating to the Medici, a noted Italian family; as, theMedicean Venus. Medicean planets (Astron.), a name given by Galileoto the satellites of Jupiter.
medicinable: Medicinal; having the power of healing. [Obs.] Shak.
medicinally: In a medicinal manner.
medicine: A physician. [Obs.] Shak. Medicine bag, a charm; -- so calledamong the North American Indians, or in works relating to them.-- Medicine man (among the North American Indians), a person whoprofesses to cure sickness, drive away evil spirits, and regulate theweather by the arts of magic.-- Medicine seal, a small gem or paste engraved with reversedcharacters, to serve as a seal. Such seals were used by Romanphysicians to stamp the names of their medicines.
medico-legal: Of or pertaining to law as affected by medical facts.
medicommissure: A large transverse commissure in the third ventricle of thebrain; the middle or soft commissure. B. G. Wildex.
medicornu: The middle or inferior horn of each lateral ventricle of thebrain. B. G. Wilder.
medics: Science of medicine. [Obs.]
mediety: The middle part; half; moiety. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
medina epoch: A subdivision of the Niagara period in the American upperSilurian, characterized by the formations known as the Oneidaconglomerate, and the Medina sandstone. See the Chart of Geology.
medino: Same as Para.
mediocral: Mediocre. [R.]
mediocre: Of a middle quality; of but a moderate or low degree ofexcellence; indifferent; ordinary. " A very mediocre poet." Pope.
mediocrist: A mediocre person. [R.]
mediostapedial: Pertaining to that part of the columella of the ear which, insome animals, connects the stapes with the other parts of thecolumella.-- n.
medioxumous: Intermediate. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
meditance: Meditation. [Obs.]
meditate: To keep the mind in a state of contemplation; to dwell onanything in thought; to think seriously; to muse; to cogitate; toreflect. Jer. Taylor.In his law doth he meditate day and night. Ps. i. 2.
meditatist: One who is given to meditation.
meditative: Disposed to meditate, or to meditation; as, a meditative man; ameditative mood.-- Med"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.-- Med"i*ta*tive*ness, n.
mediterranean fruit fly: A two-winged fly (Ceratitis capitata) with black and whitemarkings, native of the Mediterranean countries, but now widelydistributed. Its larva lives in ripening oranges, peaches, and otherfruits, causing them to decay and fall.
mediterraneous: Inland. Sir T. Browne.
medium: See Mean.(c) (Logic) The mean or middle term of a syllogism; that by which theextremes are brought into connection.
medium-sized: Having a medium size; as, a medium-sized man.
medius: The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that whichcorresponds to it.
medlar: A tree of the genus Mespilus (M. Germanica); also, the fruit ofthe tree. The fruit is something like a small apple, but has a bonyendocarp. When first gathered the flesh is hard and austere, and itis not eaten until it has begun to decay. Japan medlar (Bot.), theloquat. See Loquat.-- Neapolitan medlar (Bot.), a kind of thorn tree (CratægusAzarolus); also, its fruit.
medle: To mix; to mingle; to meddle. [Written also medly.] [Obs.]Chaucer.
medley: A composition of passages detached from several differentcompositions; a potpourri.
medly: See Medle. Johnson.
medoc: A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from thedistrict of Médoc in the department of Gironde.
medregal: See Bonito, 3.
medrick: A species of gull or tern. [Prov.] Lowell.
medulla: The marrow of bones; the deep or inner portion of an organ orpart; as, the medulla, or medullary substance, of the kidney;specifically, the medula oblongata.
medullar: See Medullary.
medullary: Filled with spongy pith; pithy. Medullary groove (Anat.), agroove, in the epiblast of the vertebrate blastoderm, the edges ofwhich unite, making a tube (the medullary canal) from which the brainand spinal cord are developed.-- Medullary rays (Bot.), the rays of cellular tissue seen in atransverse section of exogenous wood, which pass from the pith to thebark.-- Medullary sheath (Anat.), the layer of white semifluid substance(myelin), between the primitive sheath and axis cylinder of amedullated nerve fiber.
medullated: Furnished with a medulla or marrow, or with a medullary sheath;as, a medullated nerve fiber.
medullin: A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith,of certain plants. Cf. Lignin, and Cellulose.
medusa: The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed intoserpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone.
medusian: A medusa.
medusiform: Resembling a medusa in shape or structure.
medusoid: Like a medusa; having the fundamental structure of a medusa,but without a locomotive disk; -- said of the sessile gonophores ofhydroids.-- n.
meech: See Mich. [Obs. or Colloq.]
meedful: Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious. "Meedfulworks." Wiclif.
meedfully: According to merit; suitably.
meek: To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility. [Obs.]Chaucer.
meekly: In a meek manner. Spenser.
meekness: The quality or state of being meek.
meer: Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. [Obs.]
meerkat: A South African carnivore (Cynictis penicillata), allied to theichneumons.
meerschaum: A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when indry masses to float in water. It is a hydrous silicate of magnesia,and is obtained chiefly in Asia Minor. It is manufacturd into tobaccopipes, cigar holders, etc. Also called sepiolite.
meet: An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen forthe hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place ofmeeting.
meeten: To render fit. [R.]
meeter: One who meets.
meeth: , Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
meetinghouse: A house used as a place of worship; a church; -- in England,applied only to a house so used by Dissenters.
meetly: Fitly; suitably; properly.
meetness: Fitness; suitableness; propriety.
megaceros: The Irish elk.
megachile: A leaf-cutting bee of the genus Megachilus. See Leaf cutter,under Leaf.
megacosm: See Macrocosm. Croft.
megacoulomb: A million coulombs.
megaderm: Any one of several species of Old World blood-sucking bats ofthe genus Megaderma.
megadyne: One of the larger measures of force, amounting to one milliondynes.
megafarad: One of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting toone million farads; a macrofarad.
megalerg: A million ergs; a megerg.
megalesian: Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian gamesat Rome.
megalethoscope: An optical apparatus in which pictures are viewed through alarge lens with stereoptical effects. It is often combined with thestereoscope.
megalith: A large stone; especially, a large stone used in ancientbuilding.-- Meg`a*lith"ic, a.
megalo-: See Meg-.
megalocyte: A large, flattened corpuscle, twice the diameter of theordinary red corpuscle, found in considerable numbers in the blood inprofound anæmia.
megalomania: A form of mental alienation in which the patient has grandiosedelusions.
megalonyx: An extinct quaternary mammal, of great size, allied to thesloth.
megalophonous: Having a loud voice.
megalopolis: A chief city; a metropolis. [R.]
megalopsychy: Greatness of soul. [Obs. & R.]
megameter: In the metric system, one million meters, or one thousandkilometers.
megampere: A million ampères.
megaphone: A device to magnify sound, or direct it in a given direction ina greater volume, as a very large funnel used as an ear trumpet or asa speaking trumpet.
megaphyton: An extinct genus of tree ferns with large, two-ranked leaves,or fronds.
megapode: Any one of several species of large-footed, gallinaceous birdsof the genera Megapodius and Leipoa, inhabiting Australia and otherPacific islands. See Jungle fowl (b) under Jungle, and Leipoa.
megapolis: A metropolis. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
megascope: A modification of the magic lantern, used esp. for throwing amagnified image of an opaque object on a screen, solar or artificiallight being used.
megaseme: Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbitsnarrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.
megasthene: One of a group which includes the higher orders of mammals,having a large size as a typical characteristic.
megasthenic: Having a typically large size; belonging to the megasthenes.
megastome: One of a group of univalve shells, having a large aperture ormouth.
megatheroid: One of a family of extinct edentates found in America. Thefamily includes the megatherium, the megalonyx, etc.
megavolt: One of the larger measures of electro-motive force, amountingto one million volts.
megaweber: A million webers.
megerg: One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one millionergs; -- called also megalerg.
megohm: One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amountingto one million ohms.
megrim: A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes byunconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mildform of apoplexy. Youatt.
meibomian: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Meibomius. Meibomianglands, the slender sebaceous glands of the eyelids, which discharge,through minute orifices in the edges of the lids, a fatty secretionserving to lubricate the adjacent parts.
meine: See Menge.
meiocene: See Miocene.
meionite: A member of the scapolite, group, occuring in glassy crystalson Monte Somma, near Naples.
meiosis: Diminution; a species of hyperbole, representing a thing asbeing less than it really is.
meiostemonous: Having fever stamens than the parts of the corolla.
meistersinger: See Mastersinger.
mekhitarist: See Mechitarist.
melaconite: An earthy black oxide of copper, arising from the decompositionof other ores.
melaena: A discharge from the bowels of black matter, consisting ofaltered blood.
melain: The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish.
melainotype: See Melanotype.
melam: A white or buff-colored granular powder,
melamine: A strong nitrogenous base, C3H6N6, produced from severalcyanogen compounds, and obtained as a white crystalline substance, --formerly supposed to be produced by the decomposition of melam.Called also cyanuramide.
melampode: The black hellebore. [Obs.] Spenser.
melanaemia: A morbid condition in which the blood contains black pigmenteither floating freely or imbedded in the white blood corpuscles.
melanagogue: A medicine supposed to expel black bile or choler. [Obs.]
melancholia: A kind of mental unsoundness characterized by extremedepression of spirits, ill-grounded fears, delusions, and broodingover one particular subject or train of ideas.
melancholian: A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic. [Obs.] Dr. J.Scott.
melancholic: Given to melancholy; depressed; melancholy; dejected; unhappy.Just as the melancholic eye Sees fleets and armies in the sky. Prior.
melancholily: In a melancholy manner.
melancholiness: The state or quality of being melancholy. Hallywell.
melancholious: Melancholy. [R.] Milton.
melancholist: One affected with melancholy or dejection. [Obs.] Glanvill.
melancholize: To become gloomy or dejected in mind. Barrow.
melanconiaceae: A family of fungi constituting the order Melanconiales. --Mel`an*co`ni*a"ceous (#), a.
melanconiales: The smallest of the three orders of Fungi Imperfecti, includingthose with no asci nor pycnidia, but as a rule having the spores incavities without special walls. They cause many of the plant diseasesknown as anthracnose.
melanesian: Of or pertaining to Melanesia.
melange: A mixture; a medley.
melanian: One of a family of fresh-water pectinibranchiate mollusks,having a turret-shaped shell.
melanic: Of or pertaining to the black-haired races. Prichard.
melaniline: A complex nitrogenous hydrocarbon obtained artificially (as bythe action of cyanogen chloride on aniline) as a white, crystallinesubstance; -- called also diphenyl guanidin.
melanin: A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin(particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells ofthe external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outerlayer of the choroid, and elsewhere. It is supposed to be derivedfrom the decomposition of hemoglobin.
melanism: A disease; black jaundice. See Mel.
melanistic: Affected with melanism; of the nature of melanism.
melanite: A black variety of garnet.
melanochroi: A group of the human race, including the dark whites.
melanochroic: Having a dark complexion; of or pertaining to the Melanochroi.
melanochroite: A mineral of a red, or brownish or yellowish red color. It is achromate of lead; -- called also phoenicocroite.
melanocomous: Having very dark or black hair; black-haired. Prichard.
melanorrhoea: An East Indian genus of large trees. Melanorrhoea usitatissimais the lignum-vitæ of Peru, and yelds a valuable black varnish.
melanoscope: An instrument containing a combination of colored glasses suchthat they transmit only red light, so that objects of other colors,as green leaves, appear black when seen through it. It is used forviewing colored flames, to detect the presence of potassium, lithium,etc., by the red light which they emit.
melanosis: The morbid deposition of black matter, often of a malignantcharacter, causing pigmented tumors.
melanosperm: An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seeddust. The melanosperms include the rockweeds and all kinds of kelp.-- Mel`a*no*sper"mous, a.
melanotic: , Melanistic.
melanotype: A positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on asmooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also,the process of making such a picture. [Written also melainotype.]
melanterite: A hydrous sulphate of iron of a green color and vitreousluster; iron vitriol.
melanure: A small fish of the Mediterranean; a gilthead. See Gilthead(a).
melanuric: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acidobtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a whitecrystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid.
melaphyre: Any one of several dark-colored augitic, eruptive rocks alliedto basalt.
melasma: A dark discoloration of the skin, usually local; as, Addison'smelasma, or Addison's disease.-- Me*las"mic, a.
melasses: See Molasses.
melassic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from molassesor glucose, and probably identical with saccharic acid. SeeSaccharic.
melastoma: A genus of evergreen tropical shrubs; -- so called from theblack berries of some species, which stain the mouth.
melastomaceous: Belonging to the order of which Melastoma is the type.
melchite: One of a sect, chiefly in Syria and Egypt, which acknowledgesthe authority of the pope, but adheres to the liturgy and ceremoniesof the Eastern Church.
meld: In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score;as, to meld a sequence.
meleagrine: Of or pertaining to the genus Meleagris.
meleagris: A genus of American gallinaceous birds, including the commonand the wild turkeys.
melee: A fight in which the combatants are mingled
melena: See Mel.
melene: An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series,obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- calledalso melissene, and melissylene.
melenite: An explosive of great destructive power; -- so called from itscolor, which resembles honey.
meletin: See Quercitin.
melezitose: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, extracted from themanna of the larch (Larix). [Written also melicitose.]
meliaceous: Pertaining to a natural order (Meliacæ) of plants of which thegenus Melia is the type. It includes the mahogany and the Spanishcedar.
melic: Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful.
melic grass: A genus of grasses (Melica) of little agricultural importance.
melicerous: Consisting of or containing matter like honey; -- said ofcertain encysted tumors.
melicotoon: See Melocoton.
melicratory: A meadlike drink. [Obs.]
melilite: A mineral occurring in small yellow crystals, found in thelavas (melilite basalt) of Vesuvius, and elsewhere. [Written alsomellilite.]
melilot: Any species of Melilotus, a genus of leguminous herbs having avanillalike odor; sweet clover; hart's clover. The blue melilot(Melilotus cærulea) is used in Switzerland to give color and flavorto sapsago cheese.
melilotic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sweet clover or meliot;specifically, designating an acid of the aromatic series, obtainedfrom melilot as a white crystalline substance.
melinite: A high explosive similar to lyddite, consisting principally ofpicric acid, used in the French military service.
meliorate: To make better; to improve; to ameliorate; to soften; to makemore tolerable.Nature by art we nobly meliorate. Denham.The pure and bening light of revelation has had a melioratinginfluence on mankind. Washington.
meliorater: Same as Meliorator.
melioration: The act or operation of meliorating, or the state of beingmeliorated; improvement. Bacon.
meliorator: One who meliorates.
meliorism: The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature towardimprovement. J. Sully.
meliority: The state or quality of being better; melioration. [Obs.]Bacon.
meliphagan: Belonging to the genus Meliphaga.
meliphagous: Eating, or feeding upon, honey.
melissa: A genus of labiate herbs, including the balm, or bee balm(Melissa officinalis).
melissic: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting anacid obtained by oxidation of myricin.
melissyl: See Myricyl.
melissylene: See Melene.
melitose: A variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, extracted from cottonseeds and from the so-called Australian manna (a secretion of certainspecies of Eucalyptus).
mell: To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mellate: A mellitate. [R.]
mellay: A mêlée; a conflict. Tennyson.
mellic: See Mellitic. [R.]
melliferous: Producing honey.
mellific: Producing honey.
mellification: The making or production of honey.
mellifluence: A flow of sweetness, or a sweet, smooth flow.
mellifluent: Flowing as with honey; smooth; mellifluous.
mellifluently: In a mellifluent manner.
mellifluous: Flowing as with honey; smooth; flowing sweetly or smoothly; as,a mellifluous voice.-- Mel*lif"lu*ous*ly, adv.
melligenous: Having the qualities of honey. [R.]
melligo: Honeydew.
melliloquent: Speaking sweetly or harmoniously.
melliphagan: See Meliphagan.
melliphagous: See Meliphagous.
mellitate: A salt of mellitic acid.
mellite: A mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly theresult of vegetable decomposition; honeystone. It is a mellitate ofalumina.
mellone: A yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates.It has acid properties and forms compounds called mellonides.
mellonide: See Mellone.
mellow: To make mellow. Shak.If the Weather prove frosty to mellow it [the ground], they do notplow it again till April. Mortimer.The fervor of early feeling is tempered and mellowed by the ripenessof age. J. C. Shairp.
mellowly: In a mellow manner.
mellowness: Quality or state of being mellow.
mellowy: Soft; unctuous. Drayton.
melluco: A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, havingtuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes.
melne: A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.
melodeon: A kind of small reed organ; -- a portable form of theseraphine.
melodic: Of the nature of melody; relating to, containing, or made upof, melody; melodious.
melodics: The department of musical science which treats of the pitch oftones, and of the laws of melody.
melodiograph: A contrivance for preserving a record of music, by recordingthe action of the keys of a musical instrument when played upon.
melodious: Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the earby a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. "A melodiousvoice." "A melodious undertone." Longfellow.-- Me*lo"di*ous*ly, adv.-- Me*lo"di*ous*ness, n.
melodist: A composer or singer of melodies.
melodize: To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody.
melodrama: Formerly, a kind of drama having a musical accompaniment tointensify the effect of certain scenes. Now, a drama abounding inromantic sentiment and agonizing situations, with a musicalaccompaniment only in parts which are especially thrilling orpathetic. In opera, a passage in which the orchestra plays a somewhatdescriptive accompaniment, while the actor speaks; as, the melodramain the gravedigging scene of Beethoven's "Fidelio".
melodramatic: Of or pertaining to melodrama; like or suitable to a melodrama;unnatural in situation or action.-- Mel`o*dra*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
melodramatist: One who acts in, or writes, melodramas.
melodrame: Melodrama.
melody: A rhythmical succession of single tones, ranging for the mostpart within a given key, and so related together as to form a musicalwhole, having the unity of what is technically called a musicalthought, at once pleasing to the ear and characteristic inexpression.
meloe: A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra;the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead ofcantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil.
melograph: Same as Melodiograph.
melolonthidian: A beetle of the genus Melolontha, and allied genera. See Maybeetle, under May.
melon: The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as themuskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant thatproduces the fruit.
melopiano: A piano having a mechanical attachment which enables the playerto prolong the notes at will.
meloplastic: Of or pertaining to meloplasty, or the artificial formation ofa new cheek.
meloplasty: The process of restoring a cheek which has been destroyedwholly or in part.
melopoeia: The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for amelodic passage, rather than a complete melody.
melotype: A picture produced by a process in which development afterexposure may be deferred indefinitely, so as to permit transportationof exposed plates; also, the process itself.
melpomene: The Muse of tragedy.
melrose: Honey of roses.
melt: See 2d Milt.
meltable: Capable of being melted.
melter: , One who, or that which, melts.
melting: Liquefaction; the act of causing (something) to melt, or theprocess of becoming melted. Melting point (Chem.), the degree oftemperature at which a solid substance melts or fuses; as, themelting point of ice is 0º Centigrade or 32º Fahr., that of urea is132º Centigrade.-- Melting pot, a vessel in which anything is melted; a crucible.
melton: A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and withoutraised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp.
melungeon: One of a mixed white and Indian people living in parts ofTennessee and the Carolinas. They are descendants of earlyintermixtures of white settlers with natives. In North Carolina theCroatan Indians, regarded as descended from Raleigh's lost colony ofCroatan, formerly classed with negroes, are now legally recognized asdistinct.
mem-sahib: Lady; mistress; -- used by Hindustani-speaking natives in Indiain addressing European women.
member: To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. [Obs.]
membered: Having legs of a different tincture from that of the body; --said of a bird in heraldic representations.
membral: Relating to a member.
membranaceous: Thin and rather soft or pliable, as the leaves of the rose,peach tree, and aspen poplar.
membrane: A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrousnetwork, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and oftensecreting or absorbing certain fluids.
membraneous: See Membranous.
membraniferous: Having or producing membranes.
membraniform: Having the form of a membrane or of parchment.
membranology: The science which treats of membranes.
membranous: Membranaceous. Membranous croup (Med.), true croup. See Croup.
memento: A hint, suggestion, token, or memorial, to awaken memory; thatwhich reminds or recalls to memory; a souvenir.Seasonable mementos may be useful. Bacon.
memento mori: Lit., remember to die, i.e., that you must die; a warning to beprepared for death; an object, as a death's-head or a personalornament, usually emblematic, used as a reminder of death.
meminna: A small deerlet, or chevrotain, of India.
memnon: A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have theproperty of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise.
memoirist: A writer of memoirs.
memorabilia: Things remarkable and worthy of remembrance or record; also,the record of them.
memorability: The quality or state of being memorable.
memorable: Worthy to be remembered; very important or remarkable.-- Mem"o*ra*ble*ness, n.-- Mem"o*ra*bly, adv.Surviving fame to gain, Buy tombs, by books, by memorable deeds. SirJ. Davies.
memorandum: A brief or informal note in writing of some transaction, or anoutline of an intended instrument; an instrument drawn up in a briefand compendious form. Memorandum check, a check given as anacknowledgment of indebtedness, but with the understanding that itwill not be presented at bank unless the maker fails to take it up onthe day the debt becomes due. It usually has Mem. written on itsface.
memorate: To commemorate. [Obs.]
memorative: Commemorative. [Obs.] Hammond.
memoria: Memory. Memoria technica, technical memory; a contrivance foraiding the memory.
memorial: A species of informal state paper, much used in negotiation.
memorial day: A day, May 30, appointed for commemorating, by decorating theirgraves with flowers, by patriotic exercises, etc., the dead soldiersand sailors who served the Civil War (1861-65) in the United States;Decoration Day. It is a legal holiday in most of the States. In theSouthern States, the Confederate Memorial Day is
memorial rose: A Japanese evergreen rose (Rosa wichuraiana) with creepingbranches, shining leaves, and single white flowers. It is oftenplanted in cemeteries.
memorialist: One who writes or signs a memorial.
memorialize: To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to;as, to memorialize the legislature. T. Hook.
memorializer: One who petitions by a memorial. T. Hook.
memorist: One who, or that which, causes to be remembered. [Obs.]
memoriter: By, or from, memory.
memphian: Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt;hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.
men: pl. of Man.
men-pleaser: One whose motive is to please men or the world, rather thanGod. Eph. vi. 6.
menaccanite: An iron-black or steel-gray mineral, consisting chiefly of theoxides of iron and titanium. It is commonly massive, but occurs alsoin rhombohedral crystals. Called also titanic iron ore, and ilmenite.
menace: The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat orthreatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman.The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden.
menacer: One who menaces.
menacingly: In a threatening manner.
menage: See Manage.
menagogue: Emmenagogue.
menaion: A work of twelve volumes, each containing the offices in theGreek Church for a month; also, each volume of the same. Shipley.
mend: To grow better; to advance to a better state; to becomeimproved. Shak.
mendable: Capable of being mended.
mendelian: Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de"li*an*ism (#),Men*del"ism (#), n.
mendelian character: A character which obeys Mendel's law in regard to itshereditary transmission.
mender: One who mends or repairs.
mendiant: See Mendinant. [Obs.]
mendicancy: The condition of being mendicant; beggary; begging. Burke.
mendicant: Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms; as, mendicantfriars. Mendicant orders (R. C. Ch.), certain monastic orders whichare forbidden to acquire landed property and are required to besupported by alms, esp. the Franciscans, the Dominicans, theCarmelites, and the Augustinians.
mendicate: To beg. [R.] Johnson.
mendication: The act or practice of begging; beggary; mendicancy. Sir T.Browne.
mendicity: The practice of begging; the life of a beggar; mendicancy. Rom.of R.
mendinant: A mendicant or begging friar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mendment: Amendment. [Obs.]
mendole: The cackerel.
mendregal: Medregal.
mends: See Amends. [Obs.] Shak.
menge: To mix. [Obs.] Spenser.
menhaden: An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortiatyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component offertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy,hardhead, whitefish, etc.
menhir: A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial ormonument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughoutNorthern Europe.
menial: A disease characterized by deafness and vertigo, resulting inincoördination of movement. It is supposed to depend upon a morbidcondition of the semicircular canals of the internal ear. Named afterMénière, a French physician.
menilite: See Opal.
meningeal: Of or pertaining to the meninges.
meninges: The three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord; thepia mater, dura mater, and arachnoid membrane.
meningitis: Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord.Cerebro-spinal meningitis. See under Cerebro-spinal.
meniscal: Pertaining to, or having the form of, a meniscus.
meniscoid: Concavo-convex, like a meniscus.
meniscus: A lens convex on one side and concave on the other.
menispermaceous: Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbingplants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type.
menispermic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, moonseed (Menispermum), orother plants of the same family, as the Anamirta Cocculus.
menispermine: An alkaloid distinct from picrotoxin and obtained from thecocculus indicus (the fruit of Anamirta Cocculus, formerlyMenispermum Cocculus) as a white, crystalline, tasteless powder; --called also menispermina.
meniver: Same as Miniver.
menopause: The period of natural cessation of menstruation. See Change oflife, under Change.
menostasis: Stoppage of the mences.
menostation: Same as Menostasis.
menow: A minnow.
mensal: Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensaconversation.
mense: Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]-- Mense"ful, a.-- Mense"less, a.
menses: The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of bloodor bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs.
menstruant: Subject to monthly flowing or menses.
menstruate: Menstruous. [Obs.]
menstruation: The discharge of the menses; also, the state or the period ofmenstruating.
menstrue: The menstrual flux; menses. [Obs.]
menstruum: Any substance which dissolves a solid body; a solvent.The proper menstruum to dissolve metal. Bacon.All liquors are called menstruums which are used as dissolvents, orto extract the virtues of ingredients by infusion or decoction.Quincy.
mensurability: The quality of being mensurable.
mensurable: Capable of being measured; measurable.
mensurableness: The quality or state of being mensurable; measurableness.
mensural: Of or pertaining to measure.
mensurate: To measure. [Obs.]
ment: of Menge.
mentagra: Sycosis.
mental: Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; themental region.
mentality: Quality or state of mind. "The same hard mentality." Emerson.
mentally: In the mind; in thought or meditation; intellectually; in idea.
mentha: A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including thepeppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usuallyarranged in dense axillary clusters.
menthene: A colorless liquid hydrocarbon resembling oil of turpentine,obtained by dehydrating menthol. It has an agreeable odor and acooling taste.
menthol: A white, crystalline, aromatic substance resembling camphor,extracted from oil of peppermint (Mentha); -- called also mintcamphor or peppermint camphor.
menthyl: A compound radical forming the base of menthol.
menticultural: Of or pertaining to mental culture; serving to improve orstrengthen the mind. [R.]
mention: A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief orcursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of.I will make mention of thy righteousness. Ps. lxxi. 16.And sleep in dull, cold marble, where no mention Of me more must beheard of. Shak.
mentionable: Fit to be mentioned.
mentomeckelian: Of or pertaining to the chin and lower jaw.-- n.
mentor: A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.
mentorial: Containing advice or admonition.
mentum: The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium.
menu: The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.
menuse: See Amenuse. [Obs.]
meow: See 6th and 7th Mew.
mephistophelian: Pertaining to, or resembling, the devil Mephistopheles, "acrafty, scoffing, relentless fiend;" devilish; crafty.
mephitis: A genus of mammals, including the skunks.
mephitism: Same as Mephitis, 1.
meracious: Being without mixture or adulteration; hence, strong; racy.[Obs.]
mercable: Capable of being bought or sold. [Obs.]
mercantile: Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants;having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities;commercial.The expedition of the Argonauts was partly mercantile, partlymilitary. Arbuthnot.Mercantile agency, an agency for procuring information of thestanding and credit of merchants in different parts of the country,for the use of dealers who sell to them.-- Mercantile marine, the persons and vessels employed in commerce,taken collectively.-- Mercantile paper, the notes or acceptances given by merchants forgoods bought, or received on consignment; drafts on merchants forgoods sold or consigned. McElrath.
mercaptal: Any one of a series of compounds of mercaptans with aldehydes.
mercaptan: Any one of series of compounds, hydrosulphides of alcoholradicals, in composition resembling the alcohols, but containingsulphur in place of oxygen, and hence called also the sulphuralcohols. In general, they are colorless liquids having a strong,repulsive, garlic odor. The name is specifically applied to ethylmercaptan, C2H5SH. So called from its avidity for mercury, and othermetals.
mercaptide: A compound of mercaptan formed by replacing its sulphurhydrogen by a metal; as, potassium mercaptide, C2H5SK.
mercat: Market; trade. [Obs.] Bp. Sprat.
mercatante: A foreign trader. [Obs.] Shak.
mercature: Commerce; traffic; trade. [Obs.]
merce: To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.]
mercenaria: The quahog.
mercenarian: A mercenary. [Obs.]
mercenarily: In a mercenary manner.
mercenariness: The quality or state of being mercenary; venality. Boyle.
mercenary: One who is hired; a hireling; especially, a soldier hired intoforeign service. Milman.
mercer: Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; nowrestricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens.[Eng.]
mercerize: To treat (cotton fiber or fabrics) with a solution of causticalkali. Such treatment causes the fiber to shrink in length andbecome stronger and more receptive of dyes. If the yarn or cloth iskept under tension during the process, it assumes a silky luster. --Mer`cer*i*za"tion (#), n.
mercership: The business of a mercer.
mercery: The trade of mercers; the goods in which a mercer deals.
merchand: To traffic. [Obs.] Bacon.
merchandisable: Such as can be used or transferred as merchandise.
merchandise: To trade; to carry on commerce. Bacon.
merchandiser: A trader. Bunyan.
merchandry: Trade; commerce. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.
merchant: Of, pertaining to, or employed in, trade or merchandise; as,the merchant service. Merchant bar, Merchant iron or steel, certaincommon sizes of wrought iron and steel bars.-- Merchant service, the mercantile marine of a country. Am. Cyc.-- Merchant ship, a ship employed in commerce.-- Merchant tailor, a tailor who keeps and sells materials for thegarments which he makes.
merchantable: Fit for market; such as is usually sold in market, or such aswill bring the ordinary price; as, merchantable wheat; sometimes, atechnical designation for a particular kind or class.
merchantly: Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of amerchant. [Obs.] Gauden.
merciable: Merciful. [Obs.]
mercify: To pity. [Obs.] Spenser.
merciless: Destitute of mercy; cruel; unsparing; -- said of animatebeings, and also, figuratively, of things; as, a merciless tyrant;merciless waves.The foe is merciless, and will not pity. Shak.
mercurammonium: A radical regarded as derived from ammonium by the substitutionof mercury for a portion of the hydrogen.
mercurial: Caused by the use of mercury; as, mercurial sore mouth.
mercurialism: The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of mercury,or by exposure to its fumes, as in mining or smelting.
mercurialist: A physician who uses much mercury, in any of its forms, in hispractice.
mercurialize: To affect with mercury.
mercurially: In a mercurial manner.
mercuric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containingmercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which thiselement enters in its lowest proportion. Mercuric chloride, corrosivesublimate. See Corrosive.
mercurification: The process or operation of obtaining the mercury, in its fluidform, from mercuric minerals.
mercurism: A communication of news; an announcement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
mercurous: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containingmercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury in which it is presentin its highest proportion. Mercurous chloride. (Chem.) See Calomel.
mercury: A Latin god of commerce and gain; -- treated by the poets asidentical with the Greek Hermes, messenger of the gods, conductor ofsouls to the lower world, and god of eloquence.
merd: Ordure; dung. [Obs.] Burton.
mere: A pool or lake. Drayton. Tennyson.
merenchyma: Tissue composed of spheroidal cells.
meresman: An officer who ascertains meres or boundaries. [Eng.]
merestead: The land within the boundaries of a farm; a farmstead or farm.[Archaic.] Longfellow.
merestone: A stone designating a limit or boundary; a landmark. Bacon.
merganser: Any bird of the genus Merganser, and allied genera. They areallied to the ducks, but have a sharply serrated bill.
merge: To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb.To merge all natural ... sentiment in inordinate vanity. Burke.Whig and Tory were merged and swallowed up in the transcendent dutiesof patriots. De Quincey.
merger: An absorption of one estate, or one contract, in another, or ofa minor offense in a greater.
mericarp: One carpel of an umbelliferous fruit. See Cremocarp.
meride: A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remainisolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higheraggregates, termed zoides. Perrier.
meridian: A great circle of the sphere passing through the poles of theheavens and the zenith of a given place. It is crossed by the sun atmidday.
meridionally: In the direction of the meridian.
merils: A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris.
meringue: A delicate pastry made of powdered sugar and the whites of eggswhipped up, -- with jam or cream added.
merino: A breed of sheep originally from Spain, noted for the finenessof its wool.
merismatic: Dividing into cells or segments; characterized by separationinto two or more parts or sections by the formation of internalpartitions; as, merismatic growth, where one cell divides into many.
meristem: A tissue of growing cells, or cells capable of furtherdivision.
merit: To acquire desert; to gain value; to receive benefit; toprofit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
meritable: Deserving of reward. [R.]
meritedly: By merit; deservedly.
meritmonger: One who depends on merit for salvation. [Obs.] Milner.
meritorious: Possessing merit; deserving of reward or honor; worthy ofrecompense; valuable.And meritorious shall that hand be called, Canonized, and worshipedas a saint. Shak.-- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ly, adv.-- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ness, n.
meritory: Meritorious. [Obs.]
meritot: A play of children, in swinging on ropes, or the like, tillthey are dizzy.
merk: An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc. [Scot.]
merke: Murky. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
merkin: Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon.
merlin: A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. æsalon).
merling: The European whiting.
merlon: One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement.See Illust. of Battlement.
merluce: The European hake; -- called also herring hake and sea pike.
mermaid: A fabled marine creature, typically represented as having theupper part like that of a woman, and the lower like a fish; a seanymph, sea woman, or woman fish.
merman: The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish.
meroblast: An ovum, as that of a mammal, only partially composed ofgerminal matter, that is, consisting of both a germinal portion andan albuminous or nutritive one; -- opposed to holoblast.
meroblastic: Consisting only in part of germinal matter; characterized bypartial segmentation only; as, meroblastic ova, in which a portion ofthe yolk only undergoes fission; meroblastic segmentation; -- opposedto holoblastic.
merocele: Hernia in the thigh; femoral hernia .
meroistic: Applied to the ovaries of insects when they secretevitelligenous cells, as well as ova.
meropidan: One of a family of birds (Meropidæ), including the bee-eaters.
meropodite: The fourth joint of a typical appendage of Crustacea.
merorganization: Organization in part. [R.]
meros: The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph. [Writtenalso merus.] Weale.
merosome: One of the serial segments, or metameres, of which the bodiesof vertebrate and articulate animals are composed.
merostomata: A class of Arthropoda, allied to the Crustacea. It includes thetrilobites, Eurypteroidea, and Limuloidea. All are extinct except thehorseshoe crabs of the last group. See Limulus.
merou: See Jack, 8 (c).
merovingian: Of or pertaining to the first Frankish dynasty in Gaul orFrance.-- n.
merozoite: A form of spore, usually elongate or falciform, and somewhatamoboid, produced by segmentation of the schizonts of certainSporozoa, as the malaria parasite.
merrily: In a merry manner; with mirth; with gayety and laughter;jovially. See Mirth, and Merry.Merrily sing, and sport, and play. Granville.
merrimake: See Merrymake, n.
merriment: Gayety, with laughter; mirth; frolic. "Follies and lightmerriment." Spenser.Methought it was the sound Of riot and ill-managed merriment. Milton.
merriness: The quality or state of being merry; merriment; mirth; gayety,with laughter.
merry: A kind of wild red cherry.
merry-andrew: One whose business is to make sport for others; a buffoon; azany; especially, one who attends a mountebank or quack doctor.
merry-go-round: Any revolving contrivance for affording amusement; esp., a ringof flying hobbyhorses.
merrymake: Mirth; frolic; a meeting for mirth; a festival. [Written alsomerrimake.]
merrymaker: One who makes merriment or indulges in conviviality; a jovialcomrade.
merrymaking: Making or producing mirth; convivial; jolly.
merrymeeting: A meeting for mirth.
merrythought: The forked bone of a fowl's breast; -- called also wishbone.See Furculum.
mersion: Immersion [R.] Barrow.
merulidan: A bird of the Thrush family.
merus: See Meros.
mervaille: Marvel. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mes-: See Meso-.
mesa: A high tableland; a plateau on a hill. [Southwestern U.S.]Bartlett.
mesaconate: A salt of mesaconic acid.
mesaconic: Pertaining to, or designating, one of several isomeric acidsobtained from citric acid.
mesad: Same as Mesiad.
mesal: Same as Mesial.
mesalliance: A marriage with a person of inferior social position; amisalliance.
mesally: Same as Mesially.
mesaraic: Mesenteric.
mesaticephalic: Having the ratio of the length to the breadth of the cranium amedium one; neither brachycephalic nor dolichocephalic.
mesaticephalous: Mesaticephalic.
mescal: A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave.See Agave.
mesdames: pl. of Madame and Madam.
meseems: It seems to me. [Poetic]
mesel: A leper. [Obs.]
meselry: Leprosy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mesembryanthemum: A genus of herbaceous or suffruticose plants, chiefly nativesof South Africa. The leaves are opposite, thick, and f
mesencephalic: Of or pertaining to the mesencephalon or midbrain.
mesencephalon: The middle segment of the brain; the midbrain. Sometimesabbreviated to mesen. See Brain.
mesenchyma: The part of the mesoblast which gives rise to the connectivetissues and blood.
mesenteric: Pertaining to a mesentery; mesaraic.
mesenteron: All that part of the alimentary canal which is developed fromthe primitive enteron and is lined with hypoblast. It isdistinguished from the stomod, a part at the anterior end of thecanal, including the cavity of the mouth, and the proctod, a part atthe posterior end, which are formed by invagination and are linedwith epiblast.
mesentery: The membranes, or one of the membranes (consisting of a fold ofthe peritoneum and inclosed tissues), which connect the intestinesand their appendages with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity.The mesentery proper is connected with the jejunum and ilium, theother mesenteries being called mesoc, mesocolon, mesorectum, etc.
meseraic: Mesaraic.
mesethmoid: Of or pertaining to the middle of the ethmoid region or ethmoidbone.-- n. (Anat.)
mesh: The engagement of the teeth of wheels, or of a wheel and rack.Mesh stick, a stick on which the mesh is formed in netting.
meshed: Mashed; brewed. [Obs.] Shak.
meshy: Formed with meshes; netted.
mesiad: Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; --opposed to laterad.
mesial: Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane;internal; -- opposed to lateral. Mesial plane. (Anat.) See Meson.
mesially: In, near, or toward, the mesial plane; mesiad.
mesityl: A hypothetical radical formerly supposed to exist in mesityloxide. Mesityl oxide (Chem.), a volatile liquid having the odor ofpeppermint, obtained by certain dehydrating agents from acetone; --formerly called also dumasin.
mesitylenate: A salt of mesitylenic acid.
mesitylene: A colorless, fragrant liquid, C6H3(CH3)3, of the benzene seriesof hydrocarbons, obtained by distilling acetone with sulphuric acid.-- Me*sit`y*len"ic, a.
mesitylol: A crystalline substance obtained from mesitylene.
meslin: See Maslin.
mesmeree: A person subjected to mesmeric influence; one who ismesmerized. [R.]
mesmerism: The art of inducing an extraordinary or abnormal state of thenervous system, in which the actor claims to control the actions, andcommunicate directly with the mind, of the recipient. See Animalmagnetism, under Magnetism.
mesmerist: One who practices, or believes in, mesmerism.
mesmerization: The act of mesmerizing; the state of being mesmerized.
mesmerize: To bring into a state of mesmeric sleep.
mesmerizer: One who mesmerizes.
mesne: Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord whoholds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person,in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior tothe second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. Mesneprocess, intermediate process; process intervening between thebeginning and end of a suit, sometimes understood to be the wholeprocess preceding the execution. Blackstone. Burrill.-- Mesne profits, profits of premises during the time the owner hasbeen wrongfully kept out of the possession of his estate. Burrill.
mesoarium: The fold of peritoneum which suspends the ovary from the dorsalwall of the body cavity.
mesoblastic: Relating to the mesoblast; as, the mesoblastic layer.
mesobranchial: Of or pertaining to a region of the carapace of a crab coveringthe middle branchial region.
mesobronchium: The main bronchus of each lung.
mesocaecum: The fold of peritoneum attached to the cæcum.-- Mes`o*cæ"cal, a.
mesocarp: The middle layer of a pericarp which consists of three distinctor dissimilar layers. Gray.
mesocephalon: The pons Varolii.
mesocephalous: Mesocephalic.
mesocolon: The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the colon.-- Mes`o*col"ic, a.
mesocoracoid: A process from the middle of the coracoid in some animals.
mesodermal: Pertaining to, or derived from, the mesoderm; as, mesodermaltissues.
mesodermic: Same as Mesodermal.
mesodont: Having teeth of moderate size.
mesogaster: The fold of peritoneum connecting the stomach with the dorsalwall of the abdominal cavity; the mesogastrium.
mesogastric: Of or pertaining to the middle gastric lobe of the carapace ofa crab.
mesogastrium: A thin gelatinous tissue separating the ectoderm and endodermin certain coelenterates.-- Mes`o*gloeal, a.
mesognathous: Having the jaws slightly projecting; between prognathous andorthognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.
mesohepar: A fold of the peritoneum connecting the liver with the dorsalwall of the abdominal cavity.
mesohippus: An extinct mammal of the Horse family, but not larger than asheep, and having three toes on each foot.
mesolabe: An instrument of the ancients for finding two meanproportionals between two given lines, required in solving theproblem of the duplication of the cube. Brande & C.
mesole: Same as Thomsonite.
mesolite: A zeolitic mineral, grayish white or yellowish, occuring indelicate groups of crystals, also fibrous massive. It is a hydroussilicate of alumina, lime, and soda.
mesologarithm: A logarithm of the cosine or cotangent. [Obs.] Kepler. Hutton.
mesometrium: The fold of the peritoneum supporting the oviduct.
mesomycetes: One of the three classes into which the fungi are divided inBrefeld's classification. -- Mes`o*my*ce"tous (#), a.
mesomyodian: A bird having a mesomyodous larynx.
mesomyodous: Having the intrinsic muscles of the larynx attached to themiddle of the semirings.
meson: The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similarright and left halves. The line in which it meets the dorsal surfacehas been called the dorsimeson, and the corresponding ventral edgethe ventrimeson. B. G. Wilder.
mesonasal: Of or pertaining to the middle portion of the nasal region.
mesonephric: Of or pertaining to the mesonephros; as, the mesonephric, orWolffian, duct.
mesonephros: The middle one of the three pairs of embryonic renal organsdeveloped in most vertebrates; the Wolffian body.
mesonotum: The dorsal portion of the mesothorax of insects.
mesophloeum: The middle bark of a tree; the green layer of bark, usuallysoon covered by the outer or corky layer, and obliterated.
mesophryon: See Glabella.
mesophyllum: The parenchyma of a leaf between the skin of the two surfaces.Gray.
mesoplast: The nucleus of a cell; mesoblast. Agassix.
mesopodial: Of or pertaining to the mesopodialia or to the parts of thelimbs to which they belong.
mesopodiale: One of the bones of either the carpus or tarsus.
mesopodium: The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.
mesopterygium: The middle one of the three principal basal cartilages in thefins of fishes.-- Me*sop`ter*yg"i*al, a.
mesorchium: The fold of peritoneum which attaches the testis to the dorsalwall of the body cavity or scrotal sac.
mesorectum: The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the rectum.-- Mes`o*rec"tal, a.
mesorhine: Having the nose of medium width; between leptorhine andplatyrhine.
mesosauria: Same as Mosasauria.
mesoscapula: A process from the middle of the scapula in some animals; thespine of the scapula.
mesoscapular: Of or pertaining to the mesoscapula.
mesoscutum: The scutum or dorsal plate of the middle thoracic segment of aninsect. See Illust. of Butterfly.
mesoseme: Having a medium orbital index; having orbits neither broad nornarrow; between megaseme and microseme.
mesosiderite: See the Note under Meteorite.
mesosperm: A membrane of a seed. See Secundine.
mesostate: A product of metabolic action.
mesosternal: Of or pertaining to the mesosternum.
mesosternum: The middle portion, or body, of the sternum.
mesotartaric: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also inactivetartaric acid.
mesotheca: The middle layer of the gonophore in the Hydrozoa.
mesothelium: Epithelial mesoderm; a layer of cuboidal epithelium cells,formed from a portion of the mesoderm during the differetiation ofthe germ layers. It constitutes the boundary of the coelum.
mesothoracic: Of or pertaining to the mesothorax.
mesothorax: The middle segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. ofColeoptera.
mesothorium: A radioactive product intermediate between thorium andradiothorium, with a period of 5.5 years.
mesotrochal: Having the middle of the body surrounded by bands of cilia; --said of the larvæ of certain marine annelids.
mesotype: An old term covering natrolite or soda mesolite, scolecite orlime mesotype, and mesolite or lime-soda mesotype.
mesovarium: The fold of peritoneum connecting the ovary with the wall ofthe abdominal cavity.
mesoxalate: A salt of mesoxalic acid.
mesoxalic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH2O2(CO2H)2, obtainedfrom amido malonic acid.
mesozoa: A group of very lowly organized, wormlike parasites, includingthe Dicyemata. They are found in cephalopods. See Dicyemata.
mesozoic: Belonging, or relating, to the secondary or reptilian age, orthe era between the Paleozoic and Cenozoic. See Chart of Geology.
mesprise: Misadventure; ill-success. [Obs.] Spenser.
mesquite bean: The pod or seed of the mesquite.
mess: Mass; church service. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mess beef: Barreled salt beef, packed with about 80 pounds chuck and rump,two flanks, and the rest plates.
message: To bear as a message. [Obs.]
message stick: A stick, carved with lines and dots, used, esp. by Australianaborigines, to convey information.
messager: A messenger. [Obs.]
messenger: A hawser passed round the capstan, and having its two endslashed together to form an endless rope or chain; -- formerly usedfor heaving in the cable.
messet: A dog. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
messiad: A German epic poem on the Messiah, by Klopstock.
messiah: The expected king and deliverer of the Hebrews; the Savior;Christ.And told them the Messiah now was born. Milton.
messiahship: The state or office of the Messiah.
messianic: Of or relating to the Messiah; as, the Messianic office orcharacter.
messias: The Messiah.I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ. John iv. 25.
messidor: The tenth month of the French republican calendar dating fromSeptember 22, 1792. It began June 19, and ended July 18. SeeVendÉmiaire.
messieurs: Sirs; gentlemen; -- abbreviated to Messrs., which is used asthe plural of Mr.
messinese: Of or pertaining to Messina, or its inhabitans.
messmate: An associate in a mess.
messuage: A dwelling house, with the adjacent buildings and curtilage,and the adjoining lands appropriated to the use of the household.Cowell. Bouvier.They wedded her to sixty thousand pounds, To lands in Kent, andmessuages in York. Tennyson.
mest: Most. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mestee: The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called inthe West Indies. [Written also mustee.]
mester: See Mister, a trade.
mestino: See Mestizo.
mestizo: The offspring of an Indian or a negro and a European or personof European stock. [Spanish America] Mestizo wool, wool imported fromSouth America, and produced by mixed breeds of sheep.
mestling: A kind of brass. See Maslin. [Obs.]
mesymnicum: A repetition at the end of a stanza.
met: of Meet.
metabasis: A transition from one subject to another.
metabolian: An insect which undergoes a metamorphosis.
metabolic: Of or pertaining to metamorphosis; pertaining to, or involving,change.
metabolisis: Metabolism. [R.]
metabolism: The act or process, by which living tissues or cells take upand convert into their own proper substance the nutritive materialbrought to them by the blood, or by which they transform their cellprotoplasm into simpler substances, which are fitted either forexcretion or for some special purpose, as in the manufacture of thedigestive ferments. Hence, metabolism may be either constructive(anabolism), or destructive (katabolism).
metabolite: A product of metabolism; a substance produced by metabolicaction, as urea.
metabolize: To change by a metabolic process. See Metabolism.
metabranchial: Of or pertaining to the lobe of the carapace of crabs coveringthe posterior branchiæ.
metacarpal: Of or pertaining to the metacarpus.-- n.
metacarpus: That part of the skeleton of the hand or forefoot between thecarpus and phalanges. In man it consists of five bones. See Illust.of Artiodactyla.
metacetone: A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained bydistilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerlyregarded as a polymeric modification of acetone.
metachloral: A white, amorphous, insoluble substance regarded as a polymericvariety of chloral.
metachronism: An error committed in chronology by placing an event after itsreal time.
metachrosis: The power og changing color at will by the expansion of specialpigment cells, under nerve influence, as seen in many reptiles,fishes, etc. Cope.
metacinnabarite: Sulphide of mercury in isometric form and black in color.
metacism: A defect in pronouncing the letter m, or a too frequent use ofit.
metacrolein: A polymeric modification of acrolein obtained by heating itwith caustic potash. It is a crystalline substance having an aromaticodor.
metacromion: A process projecting backward and downward from the acromion ofthe scapula of some mammals.
metadiscoidal: Discoidal by derivation; -- applied especially to the placentaof man and apes, because it is supposed to have been derived from adiffused placenta.
metagastric: Of or pertaining to the two posterior gastric lobes of thecarapace of crabs.
metagenesis: The change of form which one animal species undergoes in aseries of successively produced individuals, extending from the onedeveloped from the ovum to the final perfected individual. Hence,metagenesis involves the production of sexual individuals bynonsexual means, either directly or through intervening sexlessgenerations. Opposed to monogenesis. See Alternate generation, underGeneration.
metagenetic: Of or pertaining to metagenesis.
metagenic: Metagenetic.
metagnathous: Cross-billed; -- said of certain birds, as the crossbill.
metagrammatism: Anagrammatism.
metagraphic: By or pertaining to metagraphy.
metagraphy: The art or act of rendering the letters of the alphabet of onelanguage into the possible equivalents of another; transliteration.Stormonth.
metal: An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whoseoxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, ascontrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can bedrawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partakeof both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth,etc.
metalammonium: A hypothetical radical derived from ammonium by thesubstitution of metallic atoms in place of hydrogen.
metalbumin: A form of albumin found in ascitic and certain serous fluids.It is sometimes regarded as a mixture of albumin and mucin.
metaldehyde: A white crystalline substance isomeric with, and obtained from,acetic aldehyde by polymerization, and reconvertible into the same.
metalepsis: The continuation of a trope in one word through a succession ofsignifications, or the union of two or more tropes of a differentkind in one word.
metalepsy: Exchange; replacement; substitution; metathesis. [R.]
metaleptic: Of, pertaining to, concerned in, or occurring by, metalepsy.
metaleptical: Metaleptic.-- Met`a*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.
metallic: Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, the essential andimplied properties of a metal, as contrasted with a nonmetal ormetalloid; basic; antacid; positive. Metallic iron, iron in the stateof the metal, as distinquished from its ores, as magnetic iron.-- Metallic paper, paper covered with a thin solution of lime,whiting, and size. When written upon with a pewter or brass pencil,the lines can hardly be effaced.-- Metallic tinking (Med.), a sound heard in the chest, when acavity communicating with the air passages contains both air andliquid.
metallical: See Metallic. [Obs.]
metallicly: In a metallic manner; by metallic means.
metallifacture: The production and working or manufacture of metals. [R.] R.Park.
metalliferous: Producing metals; yielding metals.
metalliform: Having the form or structure of a metal.
metalline: A substance of variable composition, but resembling a soft,dark-colored metal, used in the bearings of machines for obviatingfriction, and as a substitute for lubricants.
metallist: A worker in metals, or one skilled in metals.
metallization: The act or process of metallizing. [R.]
metallize: To impart metallic properties to; to impregnate with a metal.[R.]
metallochrome: A coloring produced by the deposition of some metalliccompound; specifically, the prismatic tints produced by depositing afilm of peroxide of lead on polished steel by electricity.
metallochromy: The art or process of coloring metals.
metallograph: A print made by metallography.
metallographic: Pertaining to, or by means of, metallography.
metallographist: One who writes on the subject of metals.
metalloid: Having the properties of a nonmetal; nonmetallic; acid;negative.
metalloidal: Metalloid.
metallorganic: Metalorganic.
metallotherapy: Treatment of disease by applying metallic plates to the surfaceof the body.
metallurgist: One who works in metals, or prepares them for use; one who isskilled in metallurgy.
metallurgy: The art of working metals, comprehending the whole process ofseparating them from other matters in the ore, smelting, refining,and parting them; sometimes, in a narrower sense, only the process ofextracting metals from their ores.
metalman: A worker in metals.
metalogical: Beyond the scope or province of logic.
metalorganic: Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of a series of compounds ofcertain metallic elements with organic radicals; as, zinc methyl,sodium ethyl, etc. [Written also metallorganic.]
metamer: Any one of several metameric forms of the same substance, or ofdifferent substances having the same composition; as, xylene hasthree metamers, viz., orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene.
metamere: One of successive or homodynamous parts in animals and plants;one of a series of similar parts that follow one another in avertebrate or articulate animal, as in an earthworm; a segment; asomite. See Illust. of Loeven's larva.
metameric: Having the same elements united in the same proportion byweight, and with the same molecular weight, but possessing adifferent structure and different properties; as, methyl ether andethyl alcohol are metameric compounds. See Isomeric.
metamerically: In a metameric manner.
metamerism: The symmetry of a metameric structure; serial symmetry; thestate of being made up of metameres.
metamorphic: Pertaining to, produced by, or exhibiting, certain changeswhich minerals or rocks may have undergone since their originaldeposition; -- especially applied to the recrystallization whichsedimentary rocks have undergone through the influence of heat andpressure, after which they are called metamorphic rocks.
metamorphism: The state or quality of being metamorphic; the process by whichthe material of rock masses has been more or less recrystallized byheat, pressure, etc., as in the change of sedimentary limestone tomarble. Murchison.
metamorphist: One who believes that the body of Christ was merged into theDeity when he ascended.
metamorphize: To metamorphose.
metamorphose: To change into a different form; to transform; to transmute.And earth was metamorphosed into man. Dryden.
metamorphoser: One who metamorphoses. [R.] Gascoigne.
metamorphosic: Changing the form; transforming. [R.] Pownall.
metamorphosis: A change in the form or function of a living organism, by anatural process of growth or development; as, the metamorphosis ofthe yolk into the embryo, of a tadpole into a frog, or of a bud intoa blossom. Especially, that form of sexual reproduction in which anembryo undergoes a series of marked changes of external form, as thechrysalis stage, pupa stage, etc., in insects. In these intermediatestages sexual reproduction is usually impossible, but they ultimatelypass into final and sexually developed forms, from the union of whichorganisms are produced which pass through the same cycle of changes.See Transformation.
metanauplius: A larval crustacean in a stage following the nauplius, andhaving about seven pairs of appendages.
metanephritic: Of or pertaining to the metanephros.
metanephros: The most posterior of the three pairs of embryonic renal organsdeveloped in many vertebrates.
metanotum: The dorsal portion of the metaphorax of insects.
metantimonate: A salt of metantimonic acid.
metapectic: Pertaining to, or designating, a supposed acid obtained frompectin.
metapectin: A substance obtained from, and resembling, pectin, andoccurring in overripe fruits.
metapeptone: An intermediate product formed in the gastric digestion ofalbuminous matter.
metaphor: The transference of the relation between one set of objects toanother set for the purpose of brief explanation; a compressedsimile; e. g., the ship plows the sea. Abbott & Seeley. "All theworld's a stage." Shak.
metaphorist: One who makes metaphors.
metaphosphate: A salt of metaphosphoric acid.
metaphosphoric: Pertaining to, or designating, a monobasic acid, HPO3,analogous to nitric acid, and, by heating phosphoric acid, obtainedas a crystalline substance, commonly called glacial phosphoric acid.
metaphrased: Translated literally.
metaphrasis: Metaphrase.
metaphrast: A literal translator.
metaphysic: See Metaphysics.
metaphysically: In the manner of metaphysical science, or of a metaphysician.South.
metaphysician: One who is versed in metaphysics.
metaphysis: Change of form; transformation.
metaplasm: A change in the letters or syllables of a word.
metaplast: A word having more than one form of the root.
metapode: The posterior division of the foot in the Gastropoda andPteropoda.
metapodial: Of or pertaining to the metapodialia, or to the parts of thelimbs to which they belong.
metapodiale: One of the bones of either the metacarpus or metatarsus.
metapodium: Same as Metapode.
metapophysis: A tubercle projecting from the anterior articular processes ofsome vertebræ; a mammillary process.
metapterygium: The posterior of the three principal basal cartilages in thefins of fishes.-- Me*tap`ter*yg"i*al, a.
metasilicate: A salt of metasilicic acid.
metasilicic: Designating an acid derived from silicic acid by the removal ofwater; of or pertaining to such an acid.
metasomatism: An alteration in a mineral or rock mass when involving achemical change of the substance, as of chrysolite to serpentine; --opposed to ordinary metamorphism, as implying simply arecrystallization.-- Met`a*so*mat"ic, a.
metasome: One of the component segments of the body of an animal.
metastannate: A salt of metastannic acid.
metastannic: Pertaining to, or designating, a compound of tin (metastannicacid), obtained, as an isomeric modification of stannic acid, in theform of a white amorphous substance.
metastasis: A spiritual change, as during baptism.
metastatic: Of, pertaining to, or caused by, metastasis; as, a metastaticabscess; the metastatic processes of growth.
metasternal: Of or pertaining to the metasternum.
metasternum: The most posterior element of the sternum; the ensiformprocess; xiphisternum.
metatarsal: Of or pertaining to the metatarsus.-- n.
metatarse: Metatarsus.
metatarsus: That part of the skeleton of the hind or lower limb between thetarsus and phalanges; metatarse. It consists, in the human foot, offive bones. See Illustration in Appendix.
metate: A flat or somewhat hollowed stone upon which grain or otherfood is ground, by means of a smaller stone or pestle. [SouthwesternU. S. & Sp. Amer.]
metathesis: Transposition, as of the letters or syllables of a word; as,pistris for pristis; meagre for meager.
metathoracic: Of or pertaining to the metathorax.
metathorax: The last or posterior segment of the thorax in insects. SeeIllust. of Coleoptera.
metatitanic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of titaniumanalogous to metasilicic acid.
metatungstate: A salt of metatungstic acid.
metatungstic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid known only in itssalts (the metatungstates) and properly called polytungstic, orpyrotungstic, acid.
metavanadate: A salt of metavanadic acid.
metavanadic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a vanadic acid analogous tometaphosphoric acid.
metaxylene: That variety of xylene, or dimethyl benzene, in which the twomethyl groups occupy the meta position with reference to each other.It is a colorless inf
metayage: A system of farming on halves. [France & Italy]
metayer: One who cultivates land for a share (usually one half) of itsyield, receiving stock, tools, and seed from the landlord. [France &Italy] Milman.
metazoa: Those animals in which the protoplasmic mass, constituting theegg, is converted into a multitude of cells, which are metamorphosedinto the tissues of the body. A central cavity is commonly developed,and the cells around it are at first arranged in two layers, -- theectoderm and endoderm. The group comprises nearly all animals exceptthe Protozoa.
metazoan: One of the Metazoa.
metazoic: Of or pertaining to the Metazoa.
mete: Meat. [Obs.] Chaucer.
metecorn: A quantity of corn formerly given by the lord to his customarytenants, as an encouragement to, or reward for, labor and faithfulservice.
metely: According to measure or proportion; proportionable;proportionate. [Obs.]
metempiricism: The science that is concerned with metempirics.
metempirics: The concepts and relations which are conceived as beyond, andyet as related to, the knowledge gained by experience.
metempsychose: To translate or transfer, as the soul, from one body toanother. [R.] Peacham.
metempsychosis: The passage of the soul, as an immortal essence, at the deathof the animal body it had inhabited, into another living body,whether of a brute or a human being; transmigration of souls. Sir T.Browne.
metemptosis: The suppression of a day in the calendar to prevent the date ofthe new moon being set a day too late, or the suppression of thebissextile day once in 134 years. The opposite to this is theproemptosis, or the addition of a day every 330 years, and anotherevery 2,400 years.
metencephalon: The posterior part of the brain, including the medulla; theafterbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to meten.
metensomatosis: The assimilation by one body or organism of the elements ofanother.
meteorical: Meteoric.
meteorism: Flatulent distention of the abdomen; tympanites.
meteorite: A mass of stone or iron which has fallen to the earth fromspace; an aërolite.
meteorize: To ascend in vapors; to take the form of a meteor. Evelyn.
meteorograph: An instrument which registers meteorologic phases orconditions.
meteorographic: Of or pertaining to meteorography.
meteorography: The registration of meteorological phenomena.
meteoroid: A small body moving through space, or revolving about the sun,which on entering the earth's atmosphere would be deflagrated andappear as a meteor.These bodies [small, solid bodies] before they come into the air, Icall meteoroids. H. A. Newton.
meteoroidal: Of or pertaining to a meteoroid or to meteoroids.
meteorolite: A meteoric stone; an aërolite; a meteorite.
meteorologist: A person skilled in meteorology.
meteorology: The science which treats of the atmosphere and its phenomena,particularly of its variations of heat and moisture, of its winds,storms, etc.
meteoromancy: A species of divination by meteors, chiefly by thunder andlightning, which was held in high estimation by the Romans.
meteorometer: An apparatus which transmits automatically to a central stationatmospheric changes as marked by the anemometer, barometer,thermometer, etc.
meteorous: Of the nature or appearance of a meteor.
meter: A line above or below a hanging net, to which the net isattached in order to strengthen it.
meterage: The act of measuring, or the cost of measuring.
metergram: A measure of energy or work done; the power exerted in raisingone gram through the distance of one meter against gravitation.
metewand: A measuring rod. Ascham.
meteyard: A yard, staff, or rod, used as a measure. [Obs.] Shak.
meth: See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
methaemoglobin: A stable crystalline compound obtained by the decomposition ofhemoglobin. It is found in old blood stains.
methal: A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermacetias an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as analcohol of the methane series.
methane: A light, colorless, gaseous, inflammable hydrocarbon, CH4;marsh gas. See Marsh gas, under Gas. Methane series (Chem.), a seriesof saturated hydrocarbons, of which methane is the first member andtype, and (because of their general chemical inertness andindifference) called also the paraffin (little affinity) series. Thelightest members are gases, as methane, ethane; intermediate membersare liquids, as hexane, heptane, etc. (found in benzine, kerosene,etc.); while the highest members are white, waxy, or fatty solids, asparaffin proper.
methanometer: An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presenceand amount of methane, as in coal mines.
metheglin: A fermented beverage made of honey and water; mead. Gay.
methene: See Methylene.
methenyl: The hypothetical hydrocarbon radical CH, regarded as anessential residue of certain organic compounds.
methide: A binary compound of methyl with some element; as, aluminiummethide, Al2(CH3)6.
methinks: It seems to me; I think. See Me. [R., except in poetry.]In all ages poets have been had in special reputation, and, methinks,not without great cause. Spenser.
methionate: A salt of methionic acid.
methionic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic (thionic) acidderivative of methane, obtained as a stable white crystallinesubstance, CH2.(SO3H)2, which forms well defined salts.
method: Classification; a mode or system of classifying natural objectsaccording to certain common characteristics; as, the method ofTheophrastus; the method of Ray; the Linnæan method.
methodios: The art and principles of method.
methodism: The system of doctrines, polity, and worship, of the sectcalled Methodists. Bp. Warburton.
methodist: One of a sect of Christians, the outgrowth of a smallassociation called the "Holy Club," formed at Oxford University, A.D.1729, of which the most conspicuous members were John Wesley and hisbrother Charles; -- originally so called from the methodicalstrictness of members of the club in all religious duties.
methodization: The act or process of methodizing, or the state of beingmethodized.
methodize: To reduce to method; to dispose in due order; to arrange in aconvenient manner; as, to methodize one's work or thoughts.Spectator.
methodizer: One who methodizes.
methodological: Of or pertaining to methodology.
methodology: The science of method or arrangement; a treatise on method.Coleridge.
methol: The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, byextension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of themethane series of which methol proper is the type. See Methylalcohol, under Methyl.
methought: of Methinks.
methoxyl: A hypothetical radical, CH3O, analogous to hydroxyl.
methyl: A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded asan essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part ofmany derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine,etc. [Formerly written also methule, methyle, etc.] Methyl alcohol(Chem.), a light, volatile, inflammable liquid, CH3.OH, obtained bythe distillation of wood, and hence called wood spirit; -- calledalso methol, carbinol, etc.-- Methyl amine (Chem.), a colorless, inflammable, alkaline gas,CH3.NH2, having an ammoniacal, fishy odor. It is producedartificially, and also occurs naturally in herring brine and otherfishy products. It is regarded as ammonia in which a third of itshydrogen is replaced by methyl, and is a type of the class ofsubstituted ammonias.-- Methyl ether (Chem.), a light, volatile ether CH3.O.CH3, obtainedby the etherification of methyl alcohol; -- called also methyl oxide.-- Methyl green. (Chem.) See under Green, n.-- Methyl orange. (Chem.) See Helianthin.-- Methyl violet (Chem.), an artificial dye, consisting of certainmethyl halogen derivatives of rosaniline.
methylal: A light, volatile liquid, H2C(OCH3)2, regarded as a complexether, and having a pleasant ethereal odor. It is obtained by thepartial oxidation of methyl alcohol. Called also formal.
methylamine: See Methyl amine, under Methyl.
methylate: An alcoholate of methyl alcohol in which the hydroxyl hydrogenis replaced by a metal, after the analogy of a hydrate; as, sodiummethylate, CH3ONa.
methylated: Impregnated with, or containing, methyl alcohol or wood spirit;as, methylated spirits.
methylene: A hydrocarbon radical, CH2, not known in the free state, butregarded as an essential residue and component of certain derivativesof methane; as, methylene bromide, CH2Br2; -- formerly called alsomethene. Methylene blue (Chem.), an artificial dyestuff consisting ofa complex sulphur derivative of diphenyl amine; -- called also pureblue.
methylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, methyl;specifically, designating methyl alcohol. See under Methyl.
methysticin: A white, silky, crystalline substance extracted from the thickrootstock of a species of pepper (Piper methysticum) of the South SeaIslands; -- called also kanakin.
metic: A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city,but not a citizen. Mitford.The whole force of Athens, metics as well as citizens, and all thestrangers who were then in the city. Jowett (Thucyd. ).
meticulous: Timid; fearful.-- Me*tic"u*lous*ly, adv.
metier: Calling; vocation; business; trade.
metol: A whitish soluble powder used as a developer in photography.Chemically, it is the sulphate of methyl-p-amino-m-cresol.
metonic: Pertaining to, or discovered by, Meton, the Athenian. Metoniccycle or year. (Astron.) See under Cycle.
metonymy: A trope in which one word is put for another that suggests it;as, we say, a man keeps a good table instead of good provisions; weread Virgil, that is, his poems; a man has a warm heart, that is,warm affections.
metope: The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which,among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work. See Illust.of Entablature.
metopic: Of or pertaining to the forehead or frontal bones; frontal; as,the metopic suture.
metopomancy: Fortune telling by physiognomy. [R.] Urquhart.
metoposcopist: One versed in metoposcopy.
metoposcopy: The study of physiognomy; the art of discovering the characterof persons by their features, or the lines of the face.
metosteon: The postero-lateral ossification in the sternum of birds; also,the part resulting from such ossification.
metre: See Meter.
metric system: See Metric, a.
metric ton: A weight of 1,000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds avoirdupois.
metrically: In a metrical manner.
metrician: A composer of verses. [Obs.]
metrification: Composition in metrical form; versification. [R.] Tennyson.
metrify: To make verse. [R.] Skelton.
metrist: A maker of verses. Bale.Spenser was no mere metrist, but a great composer. Lowell.
metritis: Inflammation of the womb.
metrochrome: An instrument for measuring colors.
metrograph: An instrument attached to a locomotive for recording its speedand the number and duration of its stops.
metrological: Of or pertaining to metrology.
metrology: The science of, or a system of, weights and measures; also, atreatise on the subject.
metromania: A mania for writing verses.
metromaniac: One who has metromania.
metrometer: An instrument for measuring the size of the womb. Knight.
metronome: An instrument consisting of a short pendulum with a slidingweight. It is set in motion by clockwork, and serves to measure timein music.
metronomy: Measurement of time by an instrument.
metronymic: Derived from the name of one's mother, or other femaleancestor; as, a metronymic name or appellation.-- A metronymic appellation.
metropole: A metropolis. [Obs.] Holinshed.
metropolis: The seat, or see, of the metropolitan, or highest churchdignitary.The great metropolis and see of Rome. Shak.
metropolitan: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a metropolitan or thepresiding bishop of a country or province, his office, or hisdignity; as, metropolitan authority. "Bishops metropolitan." Sir T.More.
metropolitanate: The see of a metropolitan bishop. Milman.
metropolite: A metropolitan. Barrow.
metropolitical: Of or pertaining to a metropolis; being a metropolis;metropolitan; as, the metropolitical chair. Bp. Hall.
metrorrhagia: Profuse bleeding from the womb, esp. such as does not occur atthe menstrual period.
metroscope: A modification of the stethoscope, for directly auscultatingthe uterus from the vagina.
metrosideros: A myrtaceous genus of trees or shrubs, found in Australia andthe South Sea Islands, and having very hard wood. Metrosideros verais the true ironwood.
metrotome: An instrument for cutting or scarifying the uterus or the neckof the uterus.
metrotomy: The operation of cutting into the uterus; hysterotomy; theCæsarean section.
mette: of Mete, to dream. Chaucer.
mettle: Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regardshonor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in agood sense.A certain critical hour which shall... try what mettle his heart ismade of. South.Gentlemen of brave mettle. Shak.The winged courser, like a generous horse, Shows most true mettlewhen you check his course. Pope.To put one one's mettle, to cause or incite one to use one's bestefforts.
mettled: Having mettle; high-spirited; ardent; full of fire. Addison.
mettlesome: Full of spirit; possessing constitutional ardor; fiery; as, amettlesome horse.-- Met"tle*some*ly, adv.-- Met"tle*some*ness, n.
meum: Lit., mine; that which is mine; -- used in the phrase meum ettuum, or meum and tuum; as, to confound meum and tuum, to fail todistinguish one's own property from that of others; to be dishonest.
meute: A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew, 1. Milman.
meve: To move. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mew: A gull, esp. the common British species (Larus canus); calledalso sea mew, maa, mar, mow, and cobb.
mewl: To cry, as a young child; to squall. [Written also meawl.]Shak.
mewler: One that mewls.
mews: An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confinedplace. [Eng.]Mr. Turveydrop's great room... was built out into a mews at the back.Dickens.
mexican: Of or pertaining to Mexico or its people.-- n.
mexicanize: To cause to be like the Mexicans, or their country, esp. inrespect of frequent revolutions of government.
meyne: Same as Meine.
mezcal: Same as Mescal.
mezereon: A small European shrub (Daphne Mezereum), whose acrid bark isused in medicine.
mezquita: A mosque.
mezuzoth: A piece of parchment bearing the Decalogue and attached to thedoorpost; -- in use among orthodox Hebrews.
mezza majolica: Italian pottery of the epoch and general character of majolica,but less brilliantly decorated, esp. such pottery without tin enamel,but painted and glazed.
mezza voce: With a medium fullness of sound.
mezzo: Mean; not extreme.
mezzo-relievo: Mezzo-rilievo.
mezzo-soprano: Having a medium compass between the soprano and contralto; --said of the voice of a female singer.-- n.(a) A mezzo-soprano voice.(b) A person having such a voice.
mezzotint: A manner of engraving on copper or steel by drawing upon asurface previously roughened, and then removing the roughness inplaces by scraping, burnishing, etc., so as to produce the requisitelight and shade. Also, an engraving so produced.
mezzotinter: One who engraves in mezzotint.
mezzotinto: Mezzotint.
mho: A unit of conductivity, being the reciprocal of the ohm.
mhometer: An instrument for measuring conductivity.
mhorr: See Mohr.
mi: A syllable applied to the third tone of the scale of C, i. e.,to E, in European solmization, but to the third tone of any scale inthe American system.
miamis: A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country betweenthe Wabash and Maumee rivers.
miargyrite: A mineral of an iron-black color, and very sectile, consistingprincipally of sulphur, antimony, and silver.
mias: The orang-outang.
miascite: A granitoid rock containing feldspar, biotite, elæolite, andsodalite.
miasm: Miasma.
miasma: Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air madenoxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia;malaria.
miasmal: Containing miasma; miasmatic.
miasmatist: One who has made a special study of miasma.
miasmology: That department of medical science which treats of miasma.
miaul: To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul. Sir W. Scott.
mica: The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfectcleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, moreor less elastic. They differ widely in composition, and vary in colorfrom pale brown or yellow to green or black. The transparent formsare used in lanterns, the doors of stoves, etc., being popularlycalled isinglass. Formerly called also cat-silver, and glimmer.
micaceo-calcareous: Partaking of the nature of, or consisting of, mica and lime; --applied to a mica schist containing carbonate of lime.
micaceous: Pertaining to, or containing, mica; splitting into laminæ orleaves like mica.
mice: pl of Mouse.
micella: A theoretical aggregation of molecules constituting astructural particle of protoplasm, capable of increase or diminutionwithout change in chemical nature.
michaelmas: The feat of the archangel Michael, a church festival,celebrated on the 29th of September. Hence, colloquially, autumn.Michaelmas daisy. (Bot.) See under Daisy.
micher: One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; anidler; a thief, etc. [Obs.] Shak.
michery: Theft; cheating. [Obs.] Gower.
miching: Hiding; skulking; cowardly. [Colloq.] [Written also meachingand meeching.]
mickle: Much; great. [Written also muckle and mockle.] [Old Eng. &Scot.] "A man of mickle might." Spenser.
micmacs: A tribe of Indians inhabiting Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.[Written also Mikmaks.]
mico: A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus), allied to themarmoset. The name was originally applied to an albino variety.
micracoustic: Same as Microustic.
micraster: A genus of sea urchins, similar to Spatangus, abounding in thechalk formation; -- from the starlike disposal of the ambulacralfurrows.
micrencephalous: Having a small brain.
micro-chemical: Of or pertaining to micro-chemistry; as, a micro-chemical test.
micro-chemistry: The application of chemical tests to minute objects or portionsof matter, magnified by the use of the microscopy; -- distinguishedfrom macro-chemistry.
micro-geological: Of or pertaining to micro-geology.
micro-geology: The part of geology relating to structure and organisms whichrequire to be studied with a microscope.
microampere: One of the smaller measures of electrical currents; themillionth part of one ampère.
microanalysis: Analysis of the structure of materials from careful observationof photomicrographs.
microbacteria: In the classification of Cohn, one of the four tribes ofBacteria.
microbarograph: An instrument for recording minor fluctuations of atmosphericpressure, as opposed to general barometric surges.
microbian: Of, pertaining to, or caused by, microbes; as, the microbiantheory; a microbian disease.
microbic: Of or pertaining to a microbe.
microbicide: Any agent detrimental to, or destructive of, the life ofmicrobes or bacterial organisms.
microbiology: The study of minute organisms, or microbes, as the bacteria. --Mi`cro*bi`o*log"ic*al (#), a. -- Mi`cro*bi*ol"o*gist (#), n.
microchronometer: A chronoscope.
microcline: A mineral of the feldspar group, like orthoclase or commonfeldspar in composition, but triclinic in form.
micrococcal: Of or pertaining to micrococci; caused by micrococci. Nature.
micrococcus: A genus of Spherobacteria, in the form of very small globularor oval cells, forming, by transverse division, filaments, or chainsof cells, or in some cases single organisms shaped like dumb-bells(Diplococcus), all without the power of motion. See Illust. ofAscoccus.
microcosm: A little world; a miniature universe. Hence (so called byParacelsus), a man, as a supposed epitome of the exterior universe orgreat world. Opposed to macrocosm. Shak.
microcosmography: Description of man as a microcosm.
microcoulomb: A measure of electrical quantity; the millionth part of onecoulomb.
microcoustic: Pertaining, or suited, to the audition of small sounds; fittedto assist hearing.
microcrith: The weight of the half hydrogen molecule, or of the hydrogenatom, taken as the standard in comparing the atomic weights of theelements; thus, an atom of oxygen weighs sixteen microcriths. SeeCrith. J. P. Cooke.
microcrystalline: Crystalline on a fine, or microscopic, scale; consisting offine crystals; as, the ground mass of certain porphyrics ismicrocrystalline.
microcyte: One of the elementary granules found in blood. They are muchsmaller than an ordinary corpuscle, and are particularly noticeablein disease, as in anæmia.
microdont: Having small teeth.
microfarad: The millionth part of a farad.
microform: A microscopic form of life; an animal or vegetable organismmicroscopic size.
micrograph: An instrument for executing minute writing or engraving.
micrographic: Of or pertaining to micrography.
micrography: The description of microscopic objects.
microhm: The millionth part of an ohm.
microlepidoptera: A tribe of Lepidoptera, including a vast number of minutespecies, as the plume moth, clothes moth, etc.
microlestes: An extinct genus of small Triassic mammals, the oldest yetfound in European strata.
microlite: A minute inclosed crystal, often observed when minerals orrocks are examined in thin sections under the microscope.
microlith: Same as Microlite, 2.
microlithic: Formed of small stones.
micromere: One of the smaller cells, or blastomeres, resulting from thecomplete segmentation of a telolecithal ovum.
micrometer: An instrument, used with a telescope or microscope, formeasuring minute distances, or the apparent diameters of objectswhich subtend minute angles. The measurement given directly is thatof the image of the object formed at the focus of the object glass.Circular, or Ring, micrometer, a metallic ring fixed in the focus ofthe object glass of a telescope, and used to determine differences ofright ascension and declination between stars by observations of thetimes at which the stars cross the inner or outer periphery of thering.-- Double image micrometer, a micrometer in which two images of anobject are formed in the field, usually by the two halves of abisected lens which are movable along their line of section by ascrew, and distances are determined by the number of screwrevolutions necessary to bring the points to be measured into opticalcoincidence. When the two images are formed by a bisected objectsglass, it is called a divided-object-glass micrometer, and when theinstrument is large and equatorially mounted, it is known as aheliometer.-- Double refraction micrometer, a species of double imagemicrometer, in which the two images are formed by the doublerefraction of rock crystal.-- Filar, or Bifilar, micrometer. See under Bifilar.-- Micrometer caliper or gauge (Mech.), a caliper or gauge with amicrometer screw, for measuring dimensions with great accuracy.-- Micrometer head, the head of a micrometer screw.-- Micrometer microscope, a compound microscope combined with afilar micrometer, used chiefly for reading and subdividing thedivisions of large astronomical and geodetical instruments.-- Micrometer screw, a screw with a graduated head used in someforms of micrometers.-- Position micrometer. See under Position.-- Scale, or Linear, micrometer, a minute and very delicatelygraduated scale of equal parts used in the field of a telescope ormicroscope, for measuring distances by direct comparison.
micrometry: The art of measuring with a micrometer.
micromillimeter: The millionth part of a meter.
micron: A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; themillionth part of a meter.
micronesian: Of or pertaining to Micronesia, a collective designation of theislands in the western part of the Pacific Ocean, embracing theMarshall and Gilbert groups, the Ladrones, the Carolines, etc.
micronesians: A dark race inhabiting the Micronesian Islands. They aresupposed to be a mixed race, derived from Polynesians and Papuans.
micronometer: An instrument for noting minute portions of time.
micropantograph: A kind of pantograph which produces copies microscopicallyminute.
microparasite: A parasitic microörganism. -- Mi`cro*par`a*sit"ic (#), a.
micropegmatite: A rock showing under the microscope the structure of a graphicgranite (pegmatite).-- Mi`cro*peg`ma*tit"ic, a.
microphone: An instrument for intensifying and making audible very feeblesounds. It produces its effects by the changes of intensity in anelectric current, occasioned by the variations in the contactresistance of conducting bodies, especially of imperfect conductors,under the action of acoustic vibrations.
microphonic: Of or pert. to a microphone; serving to intensify weak sounds.
microphonics: The science which treats of the means of increasing theintensity of low or weak sounds, or of the microphone.
microphonous: Serving to augment the intensity of weak sounds; microcoustic.
microphotography: The art of making microphotographs.
microphyllous: Small-leaved.
microphytal: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, microphytes.
microphyte: A very minute plant, one of certain unicellular algæ, such asthe germs of various infectious diseases are believed to be.
microscopal: Pertaining to microscopy, or to the use of the microscope.Huxley.
microscope: An optical instrument, consisting of a lens, or combination oflenses, for making an enlarged image of an object which is too minuteto be viewed by the naked eye. Compound microscope, an instrumentconsisting of a combination of lenses such that the image formed bythe lens or set of lenses nearest the object (called the objective)is magnified by another lens called the ocular or eyepiece.-- Oxyhydrogen microscope, and Solar microscope. See underOxyhydrogen, and Solar.-- Simple, or Single, microscope, a single convex lens used tomagnify objects placed in its focus.
microscopial: Microscopic. [R.] Berkeley.
microscopically: By the microscope; with minute inspection; in a microscopicmanner.
microscopist: One skilled in, or given to, microscopy.
microscopy: The use of the microscope; investigation with the microscope.
microseism: A feeble earth tremor not directly perceptible, but detectedonly by means of specially constructed apparatus. -- Mi`cro*seis"mic(#), *seis"mic*al (#), a.
microseismograph: A microseismometer; specif., a microseismometer producing agraphic record.
microseismology: Science or study of microseisms.
microseismometer: A seismometer for measuring amplitudes or periods, or both, ofmicroseisms. --Mi`cro*seis*mom"e*try (#), n.
microseme: Having the orbital index relatively small; having the orbitsbroad transversely; -- opposed to Ant
microspectroscope: A spectroscope arranged for attachment to a microscope, forobservation of the spectrum of light from minute portions of anysubstance.
microsporangium: A sporangium or conceptacle containing only very minute spores.Cf. Macrosporangium.
microspore: One of the exceedingly minute spores found in certainflowerless plants, as Selaginella and Isoetes, which bear two kindsof spores, one very much smaller than the other. Cf. Macrospore.
microsporic: Of or pertaining to microspores.
microsthene: One of a group of mammals having a small size as a typicalcharacteristic. It includes the lower orders, as the Insectivora,Cheiroptera, Rodentia, and Edentata.
microsthenic: Having a typically small size; of or pertaining to themicrosthenes.
microtasimeter: A tasimeter, especially when arranged for measuring very smallextensions. See Tasimeter.
microtome: An instrument for making very thin sections for microscopicalexamination.
microtomist: One who is skilled in or practices microtomy.
microtomy: The art of using the microtome; investigation carried on withthe microtome.
microvolt: A measure of electro-motive force; the millionth part of onevolt.
microweber: The millionth part of one weber.
microzoa: The Infusoria.
microzyme: A microörganism which is supposed to act like a ferment incausing or propagating certain infectious or contagious diseases; apathogenic bacterial organism.
micturition: The act of voiding urine; also, a morbidly frequent passing ofthe urine, in consequence of disease.
mid: Made with a somewhat elevated position of some certain part ofthe tongue, in relation to the palate; midway between the high andthe low; -- said of certain vowel sounds; as, a (ale), ê (êll), o(old). See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 10, 11.
mida: The larva of the bean fly.
midas: A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerousspecies of marmosets. See Marmoset.
midbrain: The middle segment of the brain; the mesencephalon. See Brain.
midday: The middle part of the day; noon.
midden crow: The common European crow. [Prov. Eng.]
middest: Situated most nearly in the middle; middlemost; midmost. [Obs.]" 'Mongst the middest crowd." Spenser.
midding: Same as Midden.
middle: The point or part equally distant from the extremities orexterior limits, as of a line, a surface, or a solid; an interveningpoint or part in space, time, or order of series; the midst; centralportion; specif., the waist. Chaucer. "The middle of the land." Judg.ix. 37.In this, as in most questions of state, there is a middle. Burke.
middle-age: Of or pertaining to the Middle Ages; mediæval.
middle-aged: Being about the middle of the ordinary age of man; between 30and 50 years old.
middle-earth: The world, considered as lying between heaven and hell. [Obs.]Shak.
middle-ground: That part of a picture between the foreground and thebackground.
middleman: The man who occupies a central position in a file of soldiers.
middlemost: Being in the middle, or nearest the middle; midmost.
middler: One of a middle or intermediate class in some schools andseminaries.
middling: Of middle rank, state, size, or quality; about equally distantfrom the extremes; medium; moderate; mediocre; ordinary. "A town ofbut middling size." Hallam.Plainly furnished, as beseemed the middling circumstances of itsinhabitants. Hawthorne.-- Mid"dling*ly, adv.-- Mid"dling*ness, n.
middy: A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman.
midfeather: A vertical water space in a fire box or combustion chamber.
midgard: The middle space or region between heaven and hell; the abodeof human beings; the earth.
midget: A minute bloodsucking fly. [Local, U. S.]
midgut: The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, orentrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine.
midheaven: The meridian, or middle line of the heavens; the point of theecliptic on the meridian.
midland: The interior or central region of a country; -- usually in theplural. Drayton.
midmain: The middle part of the main or sea. [Poetic] Chapman.
midmost: Middle; middlemost.Ere night's midmost, stillest hour was past. Byron.
midnight: The middle of the night; twelve o'clock at night.The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve. Shak.
midnight sun: The sun shining at midnight in the arctic or antarctic summer.
midrash: A talmudic exposition of the Hebrew law, or of some part of it.
midrib: A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to theapex of the lamina of a leaf.
midriff: See Diaphragm, n., 2.Smote him into the midriff with a stone. Milton.
midship: Of or pertaining to, or being in, the middle of a ship. Midshipbeam (Naut.), the beam or timber upon which the broadest part of avessel is formed.-- Midship bend, the broadest frame in a vessel. Weale.
midshipman: An American marine fish of the genus Porichthys, allied to thetoadfish. Cadet midshipman, formerly a title distinguishing a cadetline officer from a cadet engineer at the U. S. Naval Academy. Seeunder Cadet.-- Cadet midshipman, formerly, a naval cadet who had served histime, passed his examinations, and was awaiting promotion; -- nowcalled, in the United States, midshipman; in England, sublieutenant.
midships: In the middle of a ship; -- properly amidships.
midst: In the midst of; amidst. Shak.
midsummer: The middle of summer. Shak. Midsummer daisy (Bot.), the oxeyedaisy.
midward: Situated in the middle.
midway: The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course.Shak.Paths indirect, or in the midway faint. Milton.
midweek: The middle of the week. Also used adjectively.
midwife: A woman who assists other women in childbirth; a femalepractitioner of the obstetric art.
midwinter: The middle of winter. Dryden.
midwive: To midwife. [Obs.]
mien: Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing.Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but tobe seen. Pope.
miff: A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense. Fielding.
might: imp. of May. Etym
mightful: Mighty. [Obs.] Shak.
mightless: Without; weak. [Obs.]
mighty: A warrior of great force and courage. [R. & Obs.] 1 Chron. xi.12.
migniard: Soft; dainty. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
migniardise: Delicate fondling. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
mignon: See 3d Minion.
mignonette: A plant (Reseda odorata) having greenish flowers with orange-colored stamens, and exhaling a delicious fragrance. In Africa it isa low shrub, but further north it is usually an annual herb.Mignonette pepper, coarse pepper.
migraine: Same as Megrim.-- Mi*grain"ous, a.
migrant: Migratory. Sir T. Browne.-- n.
migration: The act of migrating.
mikado: The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan.
mikmaks: Same as Micmacs.
milady: Lit., my lady; hence (as used on the Continent), an Englishnoblewoman or gentlewoman.
milage: Same as Mileage.
milanese: Of or pertaining to Milan in Italy, or to its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
mild: Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderatein degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating,violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, amild disposition; a mild eye; a mild air; a mild medicine; a mildinsanity.The rosy morn resigns her light And milder glory to the noon. Waller.Adore him as a mild and merciful Being. Rogers.Mild, or Low, steel, steel that has but little carbon in it and isnot readily hardened.
milden: To make mild, or milder. Lowell.
mildew: A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or ofdifferent colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances.
mildly: In a mild manner.
mildness: The quality or state of being mild; as, mildness of temper; themildness of the winter.
mile: A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England andthe United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet.
milepost: A post, or one of a series of posts, set up to indicate spacesof a mile each or the distance in miles from a given place.
milesian: Of or pertaining to Miletus, a city of Asia Minor, or to itsinhabitants.
milestone: A stone serving the same purpose as a milepost.
milfoil: A common composite herb (Achillea Millefolium) with whiteflowers and finely dissected leaves; yarrow. Water milfoil (Bot.), anaquatic herb with dissected leaves (Myriophyllum).
miliaria: A fever accompanied by an eruption of small, isolated, redpimples, resembling a millet seed in form or size; miliary fever.
miliary: Accompanied with an eruption like millet seeds; as, a miliaryfever.
milice: Militia. [Obs.]
milieu: Environment.
miliola: A genus of Foraminifera, having a porcelanous shell withseveral longitudinal chambers.
miliolite: A fossil shell of, or similar to, the genus Miliola.
miliolitic: Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites.
militant: Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier.-- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv.At which command the powers militant... Moved on in silence. Milton.Church militant, the Christian church on earth, which is supposed tobe engaged in a constant warfare against its enemies, and is thusdistinguished from the church triumphant, in heaven.
militar: Military. [Obs.] Bacon.
militarily: In a military manner.
militarist: A military man. [Obs.] Shak.
military: The whole body of soldiers; soldiery; militia; troops; thearmy.
militate: To make war; to fight; to contend; -- usually followed byagainst and with.These are great questions, where great names militate against eachother. Burke.The invisible powers of heaven seemed to militate on the side of thepious emperor. Gibbon.
militiaman: One who belongs to the militia.
militiate: To carry on, or prepare for, war. [Obs.] Walpole.
milk: A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammalsfor the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules offat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, andinorganic salts. "White as morne milk." Chaucer.
milk sickness: A peculiar malignant disease, occurring in parts of the westernUnited States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows),and persons using the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Itschief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinateconstipation, pain, and muscular tremors. Its origin in cattle hasbeen variously ascribed to the presence of certain plants in theirfood, and to polluted water.
milk vetch: A leguminous herb (Astragalus glycyphyllos) of Europe and Asia,supposed to increase the secretion of milk in goats.
milk-livered: White-livered; cowardly; timorous.
milken: Consisting of milk. [Obs.]
milkful: Full of milk; abounding with food. [R.] "Milkful vales."Sylvester.
milkily: In a milky manner.
milkiness: State or quality of being milky.
milkmaid: A woman who milks cows or is employed in the dairy.
milkman: A man who sells milk or delivers is to customers.
milksop: A piece of bread sopped in milk; figuratively, an effeminate orweak-minded person. Shak.To wed a milksop or a coward ape. Chaucer.
milkweed: Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates, abounding in amilky juice, and having its seed attached to a long silky down;silkweed. The name is also applied to several other plants with amilky juice, as to several kinds of spurge.
milkwort: A genus of plants (Polygala) of many species. The commonEuropean P. vulgaris was supposed to have the power of producing aflow of milk in nurses.
mill: A money of account of the United States, having the value ofthe tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar.
mill-cake: The incorporated materials for gunpowder, in the form of adense mass or cake, ready to be subjected to the process ofgranulation.
mill-sixpence: A milled sixpence; -- the sixpence being one of the firstEnglish coins milled (1561).
millboard: A kind of stout pasteboard.
milldam: A dam or mound to obstruct a water course, and raise the waterto a height sufficient to turn a mill wheel.
milled: Having been subjected to some process of milling. Milled cloth,cloth that has been beaten in a fulling mill.-- Milled lead, lead rolled into sheets.
millefiore glass: Slender rods or tubes of colored glass fused together andembedded in clear glass; -- used for paperweights and other smallarticles.
millenarian: Consisting of a thousand years; of or pertaining to themillennium, or to the Millenarians.
millenary: Consisting of a thousand; millennial.
millennial: Of or pertaining to the millennium, or to a thousand years; as,a millennial period; millennial happiness.
millennialist: One who believes that Christ will reign personally on earth athousand years; a Chiliast; also, a believer in the universalprevalence of Christianity for a long period.
millennist: One who believes in the millennium. [Obs.] Johnson.
millennium: A thousand years; especially, thousand years mentioned in thetwentieth chapter in the twentieth chapter of Revelation, duringwhich holiness is to be triumphant throughout the world. Some believethat, during this period, Christ will reign on earth in person withhis saints.
milleped: A myriapod with many legs, esp. a chilognath, as thegalleyworm. [Written also millipede and milliped.]
millepora: A genus of Hydrocorallia, which includes the millipores.
millepore: Any coral of the genus Millepora, having the surface nearlysmooth, and perforated with very minute unequal pores, or cells. Theanimals are hydroids, not Anthozoa. See Hydrocorallia.
milleporite: A fossil millepore.
millerite: A believer in the doctrine of William Miller (d. 1849), whotaught that the end of the world and the second coming of Christ wereat hand.
millesimal: Thousandth; consisting of thousandth parts; as, millesimalfractions.
millet: The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear anabundance of small roundish grains. The common millets of Germany andSouthern Europe are Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria Italica.
milli-: A prefix denoting a thousandth part of; as, millimeter,milligram, milliampère.
milliampere: The thousandth part of one ampère.
milliard: A thousand millions; -- called also billion. See Billion.
milliary: Of or pertaining to a mile, or to distance by miles; denoting amile or miles.A milliary column, from which they used to compute the distance ofall the cities and places of note. Evelyn.
millier: A weight of the metric system, being one million grams; ametric ton.
millifold: Thousandfold. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
millimicron: The thousandish part of a micron or the millionth part of amillimeter; -- a unit of length used in measuring light waves, etc.
millinet: A stiff cotton fabric used by milliners for lining bonnets.
milling: The act or employment of grinding or passing through a mill;the process of fulling; the process of making a raised or intentededge upon coin, etc.; the process of dressing surfaces of variousshapes with rotary cutters. See Mill. High milling, milling in whichgrain is reduced to flour by a succession of crackings, or of slightand partial crushings, alternately with sifting and sorting theproduct.-- Low milling, milling in which the reduction is effected in asingle crushing or grinding.-- Milling cutter, a fluted, sharp-edged rotary cutter for dressingsurfaces, as of metal, of various shapes.-- Milling machine, a machine tool for dressing surfaces by rotarycutters.-- Milling tool, a roller with indented edge or surface, forproducing like indentations in metal by rolling pressure, as inturning; a knurling tool; a milling cutter.
millionaire: One whose wealth is counted by millions of francs, dollars, orpounds; a very rich person; a person worth a million or more.[Written also millionnaire.]
millionairess: A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire.[Humorous] Holmes.
millionary: Of or pertaining to millions; consisting of millions; as, themillionary chronology of the pundits. Pinker
millioned: Multiplied by millions; innumerable. [Obs.] Shak.
millionnaire: Millionaire.
millionth: Being the last one of a million of units or objects counted inregular order from the first of a series or succession; being one ofa million.
milliped: The same Milleped.
millistere: A liter, or cubic decimeter.
milliweber: The thousandth part of one weber.
millstone: One of two circular stones used for grinding grain or othersubstance.No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge. Deut.xxiv. 6.
millwright: A mechanic whose occupation is to build mills, or to set uptheir machinery.
milord: Lit., my lord; hence (as used on the Continent), an Englishnobleman or gentleman.
milreis: A Portuguese money of account rated in the treasury departmentof the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilianmoney of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.
milt: The spleen.
milter: A male fish.
miltonian: Miltonic. Lowell.
miltonic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Milton, or his writings; as,Miltonic prose.
miltwaste: A small European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) formerly used inmedicine.
milvine: Of or resembling birds of the kite kind.
milvus: A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite.
mime: To mimic. [Obs.] -- Mim"er, n.
mimeograph: An autographic stencil copying device invented by Edison.
mimesis: Imitation; mimicry.
mimetene: See Mimetite.
mimetism: Same as Mimicry.
mimetite: A mineral occurring in pale yellow or brownish hexagonalcrystals. It is an arseniate of lead.
mimic: One who imitates or mimics, especially one who does so forsport; a copyist; a buffoon. Burke.
mimically: In an imitative manner.
mimicker: An animal which imitates something else, in form or habits.
mimicry: Protective resemblance; the resemblance which certain animalsand plants exhibit to other animals and plants or to the naturalobjects among which they live, -- a characteristic which serves astheir chief means of protection against enemies; imitation; mimesis;mimetism.
mimographer: A writer of mimes. Sir T. Herbert.
mimosa: A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, andincluding the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica).
mimotannic: Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannin or tannicacid found in Acacia, Mimosa, etc.
mina: An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value.The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas.
minable: Such as can be mined; as, minable earth. Sir T. North.
minacious: Threatening; menacing. [R.]
minacity: Disposition to threaten. [R.]
minaret: A slender, lofty tower attached to a mosque and surrounded byone or more projecting balconies, from which the summon to prayer iscried by the muezzin.
minargent: An alloy consisting of copper, nickel, tungsten, and aluminium;-- used by jewelers.
minatory: Threatening; menacing. Bacon.
minaul: Same as Manul.
mince: A short, precise step; an affected manner.
mince pie: A pie made of mince-meat.
mince-meat: Minced meat; meat chopped very fine; a mixture of boiled meat,suet, apples, etc., chopped very fine, to which spices and raisinsare added; -- used in making mince pie.
mincer: One who minces.
mincing: That minces; characterized by primness or affected nicety.
mincingly: In a mincing manner; not fully; with affected nicety.
mind: To give attention or heed; to obey; as, the dog minds well.
minded: Disposed; inclined; having a mind.Joseph... was minded to put her away privily. Matt. i. 19.If men were minded to live virtuously. Tillotson.
mindful: Bearing in mind; regardful; attentive; heedful; observant.What is man, that thou art mindful of him Ps. viii. 4.I promise you to be mindful of your admonitions. Hammond.-- Mind"ful*ly, adv.-- Mind"ful*ness, n.
minding: Regard; mindfulness.
mine: See Mien. [Obs.]
mineralist: One versed in minerals; mineralogist. [R.]
mineralization: The conversion of a cell wall into a material of a stonynature.
mineralize: To go on an excursion for observing and collecting minerals; tomineralogize.
mineralizer: An element which is combined with a metal, thus forming an ore.Thus, in galena, or lead ore, sulphur is a mineralizer; in hematite,oxygen is a mineralizer.
mineralogical: Of or pertaining to mineralogy; as, a mineralogical table.
mineralogically: According to the principles of, or with reference to,mineralogy.
mineralogist: A carrier shell (Phorus).
mineralogize: To study mineralogy by collecting and examining minerals. MissEdgeworth.
minerva: The goddess of wisdom, of war, of the arts and sciences, ofpoetry, and of spinning and weaving; -- identified with the GrecianPallas Athene.
minette: The smallest of regular sizes of portrait photographs.
minever: Same as Miniver.
minge: To mingle; to mix. [Obs.]
mingle: To become mixed or blended.
mingle-mangle: To mix in a disorderly way; to make a mess of. [Obs.] Udall.
mingleable: That can be mingled. Boyle.
mingledly: Confusedly.
minglement: The act of mingling, or the state of being mixed.
mingler: One who mingles.
minglingly: In a mingling manner.
miniard: Migniard. [Obs.]
miniardize: To render delicate or dainty. [Obs.] Howell.
miniate: To paint or tinge with red lead or vermilion; also, to decoratewith letters, or the like, painted red, as the page of a manuscript.T. Wharton.
miniature: Being on a small; much reduced from the reality; as, aminiature copy.
miniaturist: A painter of miniatures.
minibus: A kind of light passenger vehicle, carrying four persons.
minie ball: A conical rifle bullet, with a cavity in its base plugged witha piece of iron, which, by the explosion of the charge, is drivenfarther in, expanding the sides to fit closely the grooves of thebarrel.
minie rifle: A rifle adapted to minie balls.
minikin: Small; diminutive. Shak.
minim: A small fish; a minnow. [Prov. Eng.]
minimal: Of, pertaining to, or having a character of, a minim orminimum; least; smallest; as, a minimal amount or value.
miniment: A trifle; a trinket; a token. [Obs.] Spenser.
minimization: The act or process of minimizing. Bentham.
minimize: To reduce to the smallest part or proportion possible; toreduce to a minimum. Bentham.
minimum: The least quantity assignable, admissible, or possible, in agiven case; hence, a thing of small consequence; -- opposed to Ant:maximum.
minimum thermometer: , a thermometer for recording the lowest temperature since itslast adjustment.
minimus: The little finger; the fifth digit, or that corresponding toit, in either the manus or pes.
mining: The act or business of making mines or of working them.
minion: Minimum. [Obs.] Burton.
minionette: Small; delicate. [Obs.] "His minionette face." Walpole.
minioning: Kind treatment. [Obs.]
minionize: To flavor. [Obs.]
minionship: State of being a minion. [R.]
minious: Of the color of red or vermilion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
minish: To diminish; to lessen.The living of poor men thereby minished. Latimer.
minishment: The act of diminishing, or the state of being diminished;diminution. [Obs.]
minister: To furnish or apply; to afford; to supply; to administer.He that ministereth seed to the sower. 2 Cor. ix. 10.We minister to God reason to suspect us. Jer. Taylor.
ministerialist: A supporter of the ministers, or the party in power.
ministerially: In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of aminister.
ministery: See Ministry. Milton.
ministracy: Ministration. [Obs.]
ministral: Ministerial. [Obs.] Johnson.
ministrant: Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; actingunder command; subordinate. "Princedoms and dominations ministrant."Milton.-- n.
ministration: The act of ministering; service; ministry. "The days of hisministration." Luke i. 23.
ministrative: Serving to aid; ministering.
ministress: A woman who ministers. Akenside.
ministryship: The office of a minister. Swift.
minium: A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead,Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle andcontinued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and inthe manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead.
miniver: A fur esteemed in the Middle Ages as a part of costume. It isuncertain whether it was the fur of one animal only or of differentanimals.
minivet: A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ.
mink: A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to theweasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common Americanmink (P. vison) varies from yellowish brown to black. Its fur ishighly valued. Called also minx, nurik, and vison.
minnesinger: A love-singer; specifically, one of a class of German poets andmusicians who flourished from about the middle of the twelfth to themiddle of the fourteenth century. They were chiefly of noble birth,and made love and beauty the subjects of their verses.
minnow: A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis,formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young oflarger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is alsoapplied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus,Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys.
minny: A minnow.
mino bird: An Asiatic bird (Gracula musica), allied to the starlings. Itis black, with a white spot on the wings, and a pair of flat yellowwattles on the head. It is often tamed and taught to pronounce words.
minor: Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, aminor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asiawhich lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and theMediterranean on the south.-- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third andsixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects.-- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed inecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers,acolytes, etc.-- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. Thestrictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitonebetween the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented secondinterval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F,7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventhare sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in thedescending, scale, thus
minorat: A custom or right, analogous to borough-English in England,formerly existing in various parts of Europe, and surviving in partsof Germany and Austria, by which certain entailed estates, as ahomestead and adjacent land, descend to the youngest male heir.
minorate: To diminish. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
minoration: A diminution. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
minoress: See Franciscan Nuns, under Franciscan, a.
minorite: A Franciscan friar.
minos: A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiterand Europa. After death he was made a judge in the Lower Regions.
minotaur: A fabled monster, half man and half bull, confined in thelabyrinth constructed by Dædalus in Crete.
minow: See Minnow.
minster: A church of a monastery. The name is often retained and appliedto the church after the monastery has ceased to exist (as BeverlyMinster, Southwell Minster, etc.), and is also improperly used forany large church. Minster house, the official house in which thecanons of a cathedral live in common or in rotation. Shipley.
minstrel: In the Middle Ages, one of an order of men who subsisted by thearts of poetry and music, and sang verses to the accompaniment of aharp or other instrument; in modern times, a poet; a bard; a singerand harper; a musician. Chaucer.
mint: The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of thegenus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation.See Mentha.
mint-master: The master or superintendent of a mint. Also used figuratively.
minter: One who mints.
mintman: One skilled in coining, or in coins; a coiner.
minuend: The number from which another number is to be subtracted.
minuet: A tune or air to regulate the movements of the dance so called;a movement in suites, sonatas, symphonies, etc., having the danceform, and commonly in 3-4, sometimes 3-8, measure.
minum: A minim.
minus: Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minusquantity. Minus sign (Math.), the sign [-] denoting minus, or less,prefixed to negative quantities, or quantities to be subtracted. SeeNegative sign, under Negative.
minuscule: Of the size and style of minuscules; written in minuscules.These minuscule letters are cursive forms of the earlier uncials. I.Taylor (The Alphabet).
minutary: Pertaining to, or consisting of, minutes. [Obs.] Fuller.
minute: A fixed part of a module. See Module.
minutely: In a minute manner; with minuteness; exactly; nicely.
minuteman: A militiaman who was to be ready to march at a moment's notice;-- a term used in the American Revolution.
minuteness: The quality of being minute.
minutia: A minute particular; a small or minor detail; -- used chieflyin the plural.
minx: The mink; -- called also minx otter. [Obs.]
miny: Abounding with mines; like a mine. "Miny caverns." Thomson.
minyan: A quorum, or number necessary, for conducting public worship.
miocene: Of or pertaining to the middle division of the Tertiary.-- n.
miohippus: An extinct Miocene mammal of the Horse family, closely relatedto the genus Anhithecrium, and having three usable hoofs on eachfoot.
miquelet: An irregular or partisan soldier; a bandit.
mir: A Russian village community. D. M. Wallace.
mira: A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (o Ceti).
mirabilary: One who, or a work which, narrates wonderful things; one whowrites of wonders. [Obs.] Bacon.
mirabilis: A genus of plants. See Four-o'clock.
mirabilite: Native sodium sulphate; Glauber's salt.
mirable: Wonderful; admirable. [Obs.] Shak.
miracle: To make wonderful. [Obs.] Shak.
miraculize: To cause to seem to be a miracle. [R.] Shaftesbury.
mirador: Same as Belvedere.
mirage: An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but morefrequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at thesurface common to two strata of air differently heated. The reflectedimage is seen, commonly in an inverted position, while the realobject may or may not be in sight. When the surface is horizontal,and below the eye, the appearance is that of a sheet of water inwhich the object is seen reflected; when the reflecting surface isabove the eye, the image is seen projected against the sky. The fataMorgana and looming are species of mirage.By the mirage uplifted the land floats vague in the ether, Ships andthe shadows of ships hang in the motionless air. Longfellow.
mirbane: See Nitrobenzene.
mire: An ant. [Obs.] See Pismire.
mirificent: Wonderful. [Obs.]
miriness: The quality of being miry.
mirk: Dark; gloomy; murky. Spenser. Mrs. Browning.
mirksome: Dark; gloomy; murky. [Archaic] Spenser.-- Mirk"some*ness, n. [Archaic]
mirky: Dark; gloomy. See Murky.
mirliton: A kind of musical toy into which one sings, hums, or speaks,producing a coarse, reedy sound.
mirror: See Speculum. Mirror carp (Zoöl.), a domesticated variety ofthe carp, having only three or fur rows of very large scales side.-- Mirror plate. (a) A flat glass mirror without a frame. (b) Flatglass used for making mirrors.-- Mirror writing, a manner or form of backward writing, makingmanuscript resembling in slant and order of letters the reflection ofordinary writing in a mirror. The substitution of this manner ofwriting for the common manner is a symptom of some kinds of nervousdisease.
mirrorscope: See Projector, below.
mirthless: Without mirth.-- Mirth"less*ness, n.
miry: Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road.
miryachit: A nervous disease in which the patient involuntarily imitatesthe words or action of another.
mirza: The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname ofan individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince.
mis: Wrong; amiss. [Obs.] "To correcten that [which] is mis."Chaucer.
mis-: A prefix used adjectively and adverbially in the sense ofamiss, wrong, ill, wrongly, unsuitably; as, misdeed, mislead,mischief, miscreant.
misacceptation: Wrong acceptation; understanding in a wrong sense.
misaccompt: To account or reckon wrongly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
misadjust: To adjust wrongly of unsuitably; to throw of adjustment. I.Taylor.
misadjustment: Wrong adjustment; unsuitable arrangement.
misadventure: Mischance; misfortune; ill lick; unlucky accident; illadventure. Chaucer. Homicide by misadventure (Law), homicide whichoccurs when a man, doing a lawful act, without any intention ofinjury, unfortunately kills another; -- called also excusablehomicide. See Homicide. Blackstone.
misadventured: Unfortunate. [Obs.]
misadventurous: Unfortunate.
misadvertence: Inadvertence.
misadvice: Bad advice.
misadvise: To give bad counsel to.
misadvised: Ill advised.-- Mis`ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.
misaffect: To dislike. [Obs.]
misaffected: Ill disposed. [Obs.]
misaffection: An evil or wrong affection; the state of being ill affected.[Obs.] Bp. Hall.
misaffirm: To affirm incorrectly.
misaimed: Not rightly aimed. Spenser.
misallegation: A erroneous statement or allegation. Bp. Hall.
misallege: To state erroneously.
misalliance: A marriage with a person of inferior rank or social station; animproper alliance; a mesalliance.A Leigh had made a misalliance, and blushed A Howard should know it.Mrs. Browning.
misallied: Wrongly allied or associated.
misallotment: A wrong allotment.
misalter: To alter wrongly; esp., to alter for the worse. Bp. Hall.
misanthrope: A hater of mankind; a misanthropist.
misanthropist: A misanthrope.
misanthropos: A misanthrope. [Obs.] Shak.
misanthropy: Hatred of, or dislike to, mankind; -- opposed to philanthropy.Orrery.
misapplication: A wrong application. Sir T. Browne.
misapply: To apply wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose; as, to misapply aname or title; to misapply public money.
misappreciated: Improperly appreciated.
misapprehend: To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand. Locke.
misapprehension: A mistaking or mistake; wrong apprehension of one's meaning ofa fact; misconception; misunderstanding.
misapprehensively: By, or with, misapprehension.
misappropriate: To appropriate wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose.
misappropriation: Wrong appropriation; wrongful use.
misarrange: To place in a wrong order, or improper manner.
misarrangement: Wrong arrangement.
misascribe: To ascribe wrongly.
misassay: To assay, or attempt, improperly or unsuccessfully. [Obs.] W.Browne.
misassign: To assign wrongly.
misattend: To misunderstand; to disregard. [Obs.] Milton.
misaventure: Misadventure. [Obs.]
misavize: To misadvise. [Obs.]
misbear: To carry improperly; to carry (one's self) wrongly; tomisbehave. [Obs.] Chaucer.
misbecome: Not to become; to suit ill; not to befit or be adapted to.Macaulay.Thy father will not act what misbecomes him. Addison.
misbecoming: Unbecoming. Milton.-- Mis`be*com"ing*ly, adv.-- Mis`be*com"ing*ness, n. Boyle.
misbede: To wrong; to do injury to. [Obs.]Who hath you misboden or offended Chaucer.
misbefitting: No befitting.
misbehave: To behave ill; to conduct one's self improperly; -- often usedwith a reciprocal pronoun.
misbehaved: Guilty of ill behavior; illbred; rude. "A misbehaved and sullenwench." Shak.
misbehavior: Improper, rude, or uncivil behavior; ill conduct. Addison.
misbelief: Erroneous or false belief.
misbelieve: To believe erroneously, or in a false religion. "Thatmisbelieving Moor." Shak.
misbeliever: One who believes wrongly; one who holds a false religion. Shak.
misbeseem: To suit ill.
misbestow: To bestow improperly.
misbestowal: The act of misbestowing.
misbileve: Misbelief; unbelief; suspicion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
misbode: of Misbede.
misboden: of Misbede.
misborn: Born to misfortune. Spenser.
miscalculate: To calculate erroneously; to judge wrongly.-- Mis*cal`cu*la"tion, n.
miscarriageable: Capable of miscarrying; liable to fail. [R.] Bp. Hall.
miscast: To cast or reckon wrongly.
miscegenation: A mixing of races; amalgamation, as by intermarriage of blackand white.
miscellanarian: Of or pertaining to miscellanies. Shaftesbury.-- n.
miscellane: A mixture of two or more sorts of grain; -- now called maslinand meslin. Bacon.
miscellanea: A collection of miscellaneous matters; matters of variouskinds.
miscellaneous: Mixed; mingled; consisting of several things; of diverse sorts;promiscuous; heterogeneous; as, a miscellaneous collection. "Amiscellaneous rabble." Milton.-- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ness, n.
miscellanist: A writer of miscellanies; miscellanarian.
miscellany: A mass or mixture of various things; a medley; esp., acollection of compositions on various subjects.'T is but a bundle or miscellany of sin; sins original, and sinsactual. Hewyt.Miscellany madam, a woman who dealt in various fineries; a milliner.[Obs.] B. Jonson.
miscensure: To misjudge. [Obs.] Daniel.-- n.
mischance: Ill luck; ill fortune; mishap. Chaucer.Never come mischance between us twain. Shak.
mischanceful: Unlucky. R. Browning.
mischaracterize: To characterize falsely or erroneously; to give a wrongcharacter to.They totally mischaracterize the action. Eton.
mischarge: To charge erroneously, as in account.-- n.
mischief: To do harm to. [Obs.] Milton.
mischief-maker: One who makes mischief; one who excites or instigates quarrelsor enmity.
mischief-making: Causing harm; exciting enmity or quarrels. Rowe.-- n.
mischiefable: Mischievous. [R.] Lydgate.
mischiefful: Mischievous. [Obs.] Foote.
mischievous: Causing mischief; harmful; hurtful; -- now often applied wherethe evil is done carelessly or in sport; as, a mischievous child."Most mischievous foul sin." Shak.This false, wily, doubling disposition is intolerably mischievous tosociety. South.
mischna: See Mishna.
mischnic: See Mishnic.
mischoose: To choose wrongly. Milton.
mischristen: To christen wrongly.
miscibility: Capability of being mixed.
miscible: Capable of being mixed; mixable; as, water and alcohol aremiscible in all proportions. Burke.
miscitation: Erroneous citation.
miscite: To cite erroneously.
misclaim: A mistaken claim.
miscognizant: Not cognizant; ignorant; not knowing.
miscognize: To fail to apprehend; to misunderstand. [Obs.] Holland.
miscollocation: Wrong collocation. De Quincey.
miscolor: To give a wrong color to; figuratively, to set fortherroneously or unfairly; as, to miscolor facts. C. Kingsley.
miscomfort: Discomfort. [Obs.]
miscomprehend: To get a wrong idea of or about; to misunderstand.
miscomputation: Erroneous computation; false reckoning.
miscompute: To compute erroneously. Sir T. Browne.
misconceit: Misconception. [Obs.]
misconceive: To conceive wrongly; to interpret incorrectly; to receive afalse notion of; to misjudge; to misapprehend.Those things which, for want of due consideration heretofore, theyhave misconceived. Hooker.
misconceiver: One who misconceives.
misconception: Erroneous conception; false opinion; wrong understanding.Harvey.
misconclusion: An erroneous inference or conclusion. Bp. Hall.
misconduct: Wrong conduct; bad behavior; mismanagement. Addison.
misconfident: Having a mistaken confidence; wrongly trusting. [R.] Bp. Hall.
misconjecture: A wrong conjecture or guess. Sir T. Browne.
misconsecrate: To consecrate amiss. "Misconsecrated flags." Bp. Hall.
misconsecration: Wrong consecration.
misconsequence: A wrong consequence; a false deduction.
misconstruable: Such as can be misconstrued, as language or conduct. R. North.
misconstruct: To construct wrongly; to construe or interpret erroneously.
misconstruction: Erroneous construction; wrong interpretation. Bp.Stillingfleet.
misconstrue: To construe wrongly; to interpret erroneously.Do not, great sir, misconstrue his intent. Dryden.Much afflicted to find his actions misconstrued. Addison.
misconstruer: One who misconstrues.
miscontent: Discontent. [Obs.]
miscontinuance: Discontinuance; also, continuance by undue process.
miscopy: To copy amiss.
miscorrect: To fail or err in attempting to correct. "Scaliger miscorrectshis author." Dryden.
miscounsel: To counsel or advise wrongly.
miscount: To count erroneously.
miscovet: To covet wrongfully. [Obs.]
miscreate: Miscreated; illegitimate; forged; as, miscreate titles. [Obs.or Poet.] Shak.
miscreated: Formed unnaturally or illegitimately; deformed. Spenser.Milton.
miscreative: Creating amiss. [R.]
miscredent: A miscreant, or believer in a false religious doctrine. [Obs.]Holinshed.
miscredulity: Wrong credulity or belief; misbelief. Bp. Hall.
miscue: A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from theball struck without impelling it as desired.
misdate: To date erroneously. Young.
misdeal: To deal or distribute wrongly, as cards; to make a wrongdistribution.
misdeed: An evil deed; a wicked action.Evils which our own misdeeds have wrought. Milton.
misdeem: To misjudge. [Obs.] Milton.
misdemean: To behave ill; -- with a reflexive pronoun; as, to misdemeanone's self.
misdemeanant: One guilty of a misdemeanor. Sydney Smith.
misdemeanor: A crime less than a felony. Wharton.
misdempt: of Misdeem. Spenser.
misdepart: To distribute wrongly. [Obs.]He misdeparteth riches temporal. Chaucer.
misdescribe: To describe wrongly.
misdesert: Ill desert. [Obs.] Spenser.
misdevotion: Mistaken devotion.
misdiet: Improper. [Obs.] Spenser.
misdight: Arrayed, prepared, or furnished, unsuitably. [Archaic] Bp.Hall.
misdirect: To give a wrong direction to; as, to misdirect a passenger, ora letter; to misdirect one's energies. Shenstone.
misdirection: An error of a judge in charging the jury on a matter of law.Mozley & W.
misdisposition: Erroneous disposal or application. Bp. Hall.
misdistinguish: To make wrong distinctions in or concerning. Hooker.
misdivide: To divide wrongly.
misdivision: Wrong division.
misdo: To do wrong; to commit a fault.I have misdone, and I endure the smart. Dryden.
misdoer: A wrongdoer. Spenser.
misdoing: A wrong done; a fault or crime; an offense; as, it was mymisdoing.
misdoubt: To be suspicious of; to have suspicion. [Obs.]I do not misdoubt my wife. Shak.
misdoubtful: Misgiving; hesitating. [Obs.] "Her misdoubtful mind." Spenser.
misdread: Dread of evil. [Obs.]
mise: The issue in a writ of right.
misease: Want of ease; discomfort; misery. [Obs.] Chaucer.
miseased: Having discomfort or misery; troubled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
miseasy: Not easy; painful. [Obs.]
misedition: An incorrect or spurious edition. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
miseducate: To educate in a wrong manner.
misemploy: To employ amiss; as, to misemploy time, advantages, talents,etc.Their frugal father's gains they misemploy. Dryden.
misemployment: Wrong or mistaken employment. Johnson.
misenter: To enter or insert wrongly, as a charge in an account.
misentreat: To treat wrongfully. [Obs.] Grafton.
misentry: An erroneous entry or charge, as of an account.
miserable: A miserable person. [Obs.] Sterne.
miserableness: The state or quality of being miserable.
miserably: In a miserable; unhappily; calamitously; wretchedly; meanly.They were miserably entertained. Sir P. Sidney.The fifth was miserably stabbed to death. South.
miseration: Commiseration. [Obs.]
miserere: The psalm usually appointed for penitential acts, being the50th psalm in the Latin version. It commences with the word miserere.
misericorde: Same as Misericordia, 2.
misericordia: An amercement. Burrill.
miserly: Like a miser; very covetous; sordid; niggardly.
misesteem: Want of esteem; disrespect. Johnson.
misestimate: To estimate erroneously. J. S. Mill.
misexplanation: An erroneous explanation.
misexplication: Wrong explication.
misexposition: Wrong exposition.
misexpound: To expound erroneously.
misexpression: Wrong expression.
misfaith: Want of faith; distrust. "[Anger] born of your misfaith."Tennyson.
misfall: To befall, as ill luck; to happen to unluckily. [Obs.] Chaucer.
misfare: To fare ill. [Obs.] -- n.
misfashion: To form wrongly.
misfeasance: A trespass; a wrong done; the improper doing of an act which aperson might lawfully do. Bouvier. Wharton.
misfeature: Ill feature. [R.] Keats.
misfeeling: Insensate. [Obs.] Wyclif.
misfeign: To feign with an evil design. [Obs.] Spenser.
misform: To make in an ill form. Spenser.
misformation: Malformation.
misfortunate: Producing misfortune. [Obs.]
misfortune: Bad fortune or luck; calamity; an evil accident; disaster;mishap; mischance.Consider why the change was wrought, You 'll find his misfortune, nothis fault. Addison.
misfortuned: Unfortunate. [Obs.]
misframe: To frame wrongly.
misget: To get wrongfully. [Obs.]
misgie: See Misgye. [Obs.]
misgive: To give out doubt and apprehension; to be fearful orirresolute. "My mind misgives." Shak.
misgiving: Evil premonition; doubt; distrust. "Suspicious and misgivings."South.
misgo: To go astray. Spenser.
misgotten: Unjustly gotten. Spenser.
misgovern: To govern ill; as, to misgovern a country. Knolles.
misgovernance: Misgovernment; misconduct; misbehavior. [Obs.] Chaucer.Spenser.
misgoverned: Ill governed, as a people; ill directed. "Rude, misgovernedhands." Shak.
misgovernment: Bad government; want of government. Shak.
misgracious: Not gracious. [Obs.]
misgraff: To misgraft. [Obs.] Shak.
misgraft: To graft wrongly.
misground: To found erroneously. "Misgrounded conceit." Bp. Hall.
misgrowth: Bad growth; an unnatural or abnormal growth.
misguess: To guess wrongly.
misguidance: Wrong guidance.
misguide: To guide wrongly; to lead astray; as, to misguide theunderstanding.
misguiding: Misleading.-- Mis*guid"ing*ly, adv.
misgye: To misguide. [Obs.]
mishandle: To handle ill or wrongly; to maltreat.
mishap: Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance. Chaucer.Secure from worldly chances and mishaps. Shak.
mishappen: To happen ill or unluckily. Spenser.
mishappy: Unhappy. [Obs.]
mishcup: The scup. [Local, U. S.]
mishear: To hear incorrectly.
mishmash: A hotchpotch. Sir T. Herbert.
mishna: A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations ofScripture, forming the text of the Talmud. [Written also Mischna.]
mishnic: Of or pertaining to the Mishna.
misimagination: Wrong imagination; delusion. Bp. Hall.
misimprove: To use for a bad purpose; to abuse; to misuse; as, tomisimprove time, talents, advantages, etc. South.
misimprovement: Ill use or employment; use for a bad purpose.
misincline: To cause to have a wrong inclination or tendency; to affectwrongly.
misinfer: To infer incorrectly.
misinform: To give untrue information to; to inform wrongly.
misinformant: A misinformer.
misinformation: Untrue or incorrect information. Bacon.
misinformer: One who gives or incorrect information.
misinstruct: To instruct amiss.
misinstruction: Wrong or improper instruction.
misintend: To aim amiss. [Obs.]
misinterpret: To interpret erroneously; to understand or to explain in awrong sense.
misinterpretable: Capable of being misinterpreted; liable to be misunderstood.
misinterpretation: The act of interpreting erroneously; a mistaken interpretation.
misinterpreter: One who interprets erroneously.
misjoin: To join unfitly or improperly.
misjoinder: An incorrect union of parties or of causes of action in aprocedure, criminal or civil. Wharton.
misjudge: To judge erroneously or unjustly; to err in judgment; tomisconstrue.
misjudgment: A wrong or unjust judgment.
miskeep: To keep wrongly. Chaucer.
misken: Not to know. [Obs.]
miskin: A little bagpipe. [Obs.] Drayton.
miskindle: To kindle amiss; to inflame to a bad purpose; to excitewrongly.
misknow: To have a mistaken notion of or about. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
mislactation: Defective flow or vitiated condition of the milk.
mislayer: One who mislays.
misle: To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle.
mislead: To lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide intoerror; to cause to mistake; to deceive.Trust not servants who mislead or misinform you. Bacon.To give due light To the mislead and lonely traveler. Milton.
misleader: One who leads into error.
misleading: Leading astray; delusive.
mislearn: To learn wrongly.
misled: of Mislead.
mislen: See Maslin.
misletoe: See Mistletoe.
mislight: To deceive or lead astray with a false light. Herrick.
mislike: To dislike; to disapprove of; to have aversion to; as, tomislike a man.Who may like or mislike what he says. I. Taylor.
misliker: One who dislikes.
misliking: Dislike; aversion.
mislin: See Maslin.
mislive: To live amiss.
mislodge: To lodge amiss. [Obs.]
misluck: Ill luck; misfortune.
misly: Raining in very small drops.
mismake: To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. "Limpingpossibilities of mismade human nature." Mrs. Browning.
mismanage: To manage ill or improperly; as, to mismanage public affairs.
mismanagement: Wrong or bad management; as, he failed through mismagement.
mismanager: One who manages ill.
mismark: To mark wrongly.
mismatch: To match unsuitably.
mismate: To mate wrongly or unsuitably; as, to mismate gloves or shoes;a mismated couple.
mismeasure: To measure or estimate incorrectly.
mismeasurement: Wrong measurement.
mismeter: To give the wrong meter to, as to a line of verse. [R.]Chaucer.
misname: To call by the wrong name; to give a wrong or inappropriatename to.
misnomer: The misnaming of a person in a legal instrument, as in acomplaint or indictment; any misnaming of a person or thing; a wrongor inapplicable name or title.Many of the changes, by a great misnomer, called parliamentary"reforms". Burke.The word "synonym" is fact a misnomer. Whatel
misnumber: To number wrongly.
misnurture: To nurture or train wrongly; as, to misnurture children. Bp.Hall.
misobedience: Mistaken obedience; disobedience. [Obs.] Milton.
misobserve: To observe inaccurately; to mistake in observing. Locke.
misobserver: One who misobserves; one who fails to observe properly.
misogamist: A hater of marriage.
misogamy: Hatre
misogynist: A woman hater. Fuller.
misogynous: Hating women.
misogyny: Hatred of women. Johnson.
misology: Hatred of argument or discussion; hatred of enlightenment. G.H. Lewes.
misopinion: Wrong opinion. [Obs.]
misorder: To order ill; to manage erroneously; to conduct badly. [Obs.]Shak.
misorderly: Irregular; disorderly. [Obs.]
misordination: Wrong ordination.
misotheism: Hatred of God. De Quincey.
mispaint: To paint ill, or wrongly.
mispassion: Wrong passion or feeling. [Obs.]
mispay: To dissatisfy. [Obs.]
mispense: See Misspense. Bp. Hall.
misperception: Erroneous perception.
mispersuade: To persuade amiss.
mispersuasion: A false persuasion; wrong notion or opinion. Dr. H. More.
mispickel: Arsenical iron pyrites; arsenopyrite.
misplace: To put in a wrong place; to set or place on an improper orunworthy object; as, he misplaced his confidence.
misplacement: The act of misplacing, or the state of being misplaced.
misplead: To err in pleading.
mispleading: An error in pleading.
mispoint: To point improperly; to punctuate wrongly.
mispolicy: Wrong policy; impolicy.
mispractice: Wrong practice.
mispraise: To praise amiss.
misprint: To print wrong.
misprise: See Misprize. [Obs.] Shak.
misprision: A neglect, negligence, or contempt.
misprize: To slight or undervalue.O, for those vanished hours, so much misprized! Hillhouse.I do not blame them, madam, nor misprize. Mrs. Browning.
misproceeding: Wrong or irregular proceding.
misprofess: To make a false profession; to make pretensions to skill whichis not possessed.
mispronounce: To pronounce incorrectly.
mispronunciation: Wrong or improper pronunciation.
misproportion: To give wrong proportions to; to join without due proportion.
misproud: Viciously proud. [Obs.] Shak.
mispunctuate: To punctuate wrongly or incorrectly.
misquotation: Erroneous or inaccurate quotation.
misquote: To quote erroneously or incorrectly. Shak.
misraise: To raise or exite unreasonable. "Misraised fury." Bp. Hall.
misrate: To rate erroneously.
misread: To read amiss; to misunderstand in reading.
misreceive: To receive wrongly.
misrecital: An inaccurate recital.
misrecite: To recite erroneously.
misreckon: To reckon wrongly; to miscalculate. Swift.
misreckoning: An erroneous computation.
misrecollect: To have an erroneous remembrance of; to suppose erroneouslythat one recollects. Hitchcock.
misrecollection: Erroneous or inaccurate recollection.
misreform: To reform wrongly or imperfectly.
misregard: Wrong understanding; misconstruction. [Obs.] Spenser.
misregulate: To regulate wrongly or imperfectly; to fail to regulate.
misrehearse: To rehearse or quote incorrectly. Sir T. More.
misrelate: To relate inaccurately.
misrelation: Erroneous relation or narration. Abp. Bramhall.
misreligion: False religion. [R.]
misremember: To mistake in remembering; not to remember correctly. Sir T.More.
misrender: To render wrongly; to translate or recite wrongly. Boyle.
misrepeat: To repeat wrongly; to give a wrong version of. Gov. Winthrop.
misreport: To report erroneously; to give an incorrect account of. Locke.
misrepresent: To represent incorrectly (almost always, unfacorably); to givea false erroneous representation of, either maliciously, ignirantly,or carelessly. Swift.
misrepresentation: Untrue representation; false or incorrect statement or account;-- usually unfavorable to the thing represented; as, amisrepresentation of a person's motives. Sydney Smith.
misrepresentative: Tending to convey a wrong impression; misrepresenting.
misrepresenter: One who misrepresents.
misrepute: To have in wrong estimation; to repute or estimate erroneously.
misrule: To rule badly; to misgovern.
misruly: Unruly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
miss: In the game of three-card loo, an extra hand, dealt on thetable, which may be substituted for the hand dealt to a player.
missa: The service or sacrifice of the Mass.
missal: The book containing the service of the Mass for the entireyear; a Mass book.
missay: To speak ill. [Obs.] Spenser.
misseek: To seek for wrongly. [Obs.]
missel: Mistletoe. [Obs.] Missel bird, Missel thrush (Zoöl.), a largeEuropean thrush (Turdus viscivorus) which feeds on the berries of themistletoe; -- called also mistletoe thrush and missel.
misseldine: The mistletoe. [Obs.] Baret.
misseltoe: See Mistletoe.
missemblance: False resemblance or semblance. [Obs.]
missend: To send amiss or incorrectly.
misserve: To serve unfaithfully.
misset: To set pr place wrongly.
misshape: To shape ill; to give an ill or unnatural from to; to deform."Figures monstrous and misshaped." Pope.
misshapen: Having a bad or ugly form. "The mountains are misshapen."Bentley.-- Mis*shap"en*ly, adv.-- Mis*shap"en*ness, n.
missheathed: Sheathed by mistake; wrongly sheathed; sheathed in a wrongplace. Shak.
missificate: To perform Mass. [Obs.] Milton.
missile: Capable of being thrown; adapted for hurling or to be projectedfrom the hand, or from any instrument or rngine, so as to strike anobject at a distance.We bend the bow, or wing the missile dart. Pope.
missing: Absent from the place where it was expected to be found; lost;wanting; not present when called or looked for.Neither was there aught missing unto them. 1 Sam. xxv. 7.For a time caught up to God, as once Moses was in the mount, andmissing long. Milton.
missingly: With a sense of loss. [Obs.] Shak.
mission: To send on a mission. [Mostly used in the form of the pastparticiple.] Keats.
missionary: One who is sent on a mission; especially, one sent to propagatereligion. Swift. Missionary apostolic, a Roman Catholic missionarysent by commission from the pope.
missioner: A missionary; an envoy; one who conducts a mission. SeeMission, n., 6. "Like mighty missioner you come." Dryden.
missis: A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate. G. Eliot.
missish: Like a miss; prim; affected; sentimental.-- Miss"ish*ness, n.
missit: To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome. [Obs.] Chaucer.
missound: To sound wrongly; to utter or pronounce incorrectly. E,Hall.
misspeak: To err in speaking.
misspeech: Wrong speech. [Obs.]
misspell: To spell incorrectly.
misspelling: A wrong spelling.
misspend: To spend amiss or for wrong purposes; to aquander; to waste;as, to misspend time or money. J. Philips.
misspender: One who misspends.
misspense: A spending improperly; a wasting. [Obs.] Barrow.
misspent: of Misspend.
misstate: To state wrongly; as, to misstate a question in debate. Bp.Sanderson.
misstatement: An incorrect statement.
misstayed: Having missed stays; -- said of a ship.
misstep: A wrong step; an error of conduct.
missuccess: Failure. [Obs.]
missuggestion: Wrong or evil suggestion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
missummation: Wrong summation.
misswear: To swear falsely.
missy: See Misy.
mist: To cloud; to cover with mist; to dim. Shak.
mistakable: Liable to be mistaken; capable of being misconceived. Sir T.Browne.
mistake: To err in knowledge, perception, opinion, or judgment; tocommit an unintentional error.Servants mistake, and sometimes occasion misunderstanding amongfriends. Swift.
mistakenly: By mistake. Goldsmith.
mistakenness: Erroneousness.
mistaker: One who mistakes.Well meaning ignorance of some mistakers. Bp. Hall.
mistaking: An error; a mistake. Shak.
mistakingly: Erroneously.
mistaught: Wrongly taught; as, a mistaught youth. L'Estrange.
misteach: To teach wrongly; to instruct erroneously.
mistell: To tell erroneously.
mistemper: To temper ill; to disorder; as, to mistemper one's head.Warner.This inundation of mistempered humor. Shak.
mister: A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. Itis usually written in the abbreviated form Mr.To call your name, inquire your where, Or whet you think of MisterSome-one's book, Or Mister Other's marriage or decease. Mrs.Browning.
misterm: To call by a wrong name; to miscall.
mistery: See Mystery, a trade.
mistful: Clouded with, or as with, mist.
misthink: To think wrongly. [Obs.] "Adam misthought of her." Milton.
misthought: Erroneous thought; mistaken opinion; error. [Obs.] Spenser.
misthrive: To thrive poorly; to be not thrifty or prosperous. [Obs.]
misthrow: To throw wrongly.
mistide: To happen or come to pass unfortunately; also, to suffer evilfortune. [Obs.]
mistihead: Mistiness. [Obs.]
mistily: With mist; darkly; obscurely.
mistime: To time wrongly; not to adapt to the time.
mistiness: State of being misty.
mistion: Mixture. [Obs.]
mistitle: To call by a wrong title.
mistle: To fall in very fine drops, as rain.
mistletoe: A parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing aglutinous fruit. When found upon the oak, where it is rare, it was anobject of superstitious regard among the Druids. A bird lime isprepared from its fruit. [Written also misletoe, misseltoe, andmistleto.] Lindley. Loudon.
mistonusk: The American badger.
mistook: of Mistake.
mistradition: A wrong tradition. "Monsters of mistradition." Tennyson.
mistrain: To train amiss.
mistral: A violent and cold northwest wind experienced in theMediterranean provinces of France, etc.
mistranslate: To translate erroneously.
mistranslation: Wrong translation.
mistransport: To carry away or mislead wrongfully, as by passion. [Obs.] Bp.Hall.
mistreading: Misstep; misbehavior. "To punish my mistreadings." Shak.
mistreat: To treat amiss; to abuse.
mistreatment: Wrong treatment.
mistress: To wait upon a mistress; to be courting. [Obs.] Donne.
mistrial: A false or erroneous trial; a trial which has no result.
mistrist: To mistrust. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mistrow: To think wrongly. [Obs.]
mistrust: Want of confidence or trust; suspicion; distrust. Milton.
mistruster: One who mistrusts.
mistrustful: Having or causing mistrust, suspicions, or forebodings.Their light blown out in some mistrustful wood. Shak.-- Mis*trust"ful*ly, adv.-- Mis*trust"ful*ness, n.
mistrustingly: With distrust or suspicion.
mistrustless: Having no mistrust or suspicion.The swain mistrustless of his smutted face. Goldsmith.
mistune: To tune wrongly.
misturn: To turn amiss; to pervert.
mistutor: To instruct amiss.
misunderstand: To misconceive; to mistake; to miscomprehend; to take in awrong sense.
misunderstander: One who misunderstands. Sir T. More.
misurato: Measured; -- a direction to perform a passage in strict ormeasured time.
misusage: Bad treatment; abuse. Spenser.
misusement: Misuse. [Obs.]
misuser: Unlawful use of a right; use in excess of, or varying from,one's right. Bouvier.
misvalue: To value wrongly or too little; to undervalue.But for I am so young, I dread my work Wot be misvalued both of oldand young. W. Browne.
misvouch: To vouch falsely.
miswander: To wander in a wrong path; to stray; to go astray. [Obs.]Chaucer.
misway: A wrong way. [Obs.] Chaucer.
miswear: To wear ill. [Obs.] Bacon.
miswed: To wed improperly.
misween: To ween amiss; to misjudge; to distrust; to be mistaken. [Obs.]Spenser.
miswend: To go wrong; to go astray. [Obs.] "The world is miswent."Gower.
misword: To word wrongly; as, to misword a message, or a sentence.
misworship: Wrong or false worship; mistaken practices in religion. Bp.Hall.Such hideous jungle of misworships. Carlyle.
misworshiper: One who worships wrongly.
miswrite: To write incorrectly.
miswrought: Badly wrought. Bacon.
misy: An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas orcopiapite.
misyoke: To yoke improperly.
miszealous: Mistakenly zealous. [Obs.]
mite: A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there aremany species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. SeeAcarina.
miterwort: Any plant of the genus Mitella, -- slender, perennial herbswith a pod slightly resembling a bishop's miter; bishop's cap. Falsemiterwort, a white-flowered perennial herb of the United States(Tiarella cardifolia).
mithic: See Mythic.
mithras: The sun god of the Persians.
mithridate: An antidote against poison, or a composition in form of anelectuary, supposed to serve either as a remedy or a preservativeagainst poison; an alexipharmic; -- so called from King Mithridates,its reputed inventor.[Love is] a drop of the true elixir; no mithridate so effectualagainst the infection of vice. Southey.
mithridatic: Of or pertaining to King Mithridates, or to a mithridate.
mitigable: Admitting of mitigation; that may be mitigated.
mitigant: Tending to mitigate; mitigating; lentitive. Johnson.
mitigation: The act of mitigating, or the state of being mitigated;abatement or diminution of anything painful, harsh, severe,afflictive, or calamitous; as, the mitigation of pain, grief, rigor,severity, punishment, or penalty.
mitigative: Tending to mitigate; alleviating.
mitigator: One who, or that which, mitigates.
mitigatory: Tending to mitigate or alleviate; mitigative.
miting: A little one; -- used as a term of endearment. [Obs.] Skelton.
mitis casting: A process, invented by P. Ostberg, for producing malleable ironcastings by melting wrought iron, to which from 0.05 to 0.1 per centof aluminium is added to lower the melting point, usually in apetroleum furnace, keeping the molten metal at the bubbling pointuntil it becomes quiet, and then pouring the molten metal into a moldlined with a special mixture consisting essentially of molasses andground burnt fire clay; also, a casting made by this process; --called also wrought-iron casting.
mitis metal: The malleable iron produced by mitis casting; -- called alsosimply mitis.
mitome: The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell.
mitosis: See Karyokinesis.
mitotic: Of or pertaining to mitosis; karyokinetic; as, mitotic celldivision; -- opposed to amitotic. --Mi*tot"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
mitraille: Shot or bits of iron used sometimes in loading cannon.
mitrailleur: One who serves a mitrailleuse.
mitrailleuse: A breech-loading machine gun consisting of a number of barrelsfitted together, so arranged that the barrels can be firedsimultaneously, or successively, and rapidly.
mitral: Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valvebetween the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart.
mitre: See Miter.
mitriform: Having the form of a miter, or a peaked cap; as, a mitriformcalyptra. Gray.
mitt: A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not forthe fingers.
mittened: Covered with a mitten or mittens. "Mittened hands." Whittier.
mittent: Sending forth; emitting. [Obs.] Wiseman.
mittimus: A pigment of a green color, the chief constituent of which isoxide of chromium.
mitty: The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.]
mitu: A South American curassow of the genus Mitua.
mity: Having, or abounding with, mites.
mixable: Capable of being mixed.
mixed: Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i.Mixed action (Law), a suit combining the properties of a real and apersonal action.-- Mixed angle, a mixtilineal angle.-- Mixed fabric, a textile fabric composed of two or more kinds offiber, as a poplin.-- Mixed marriage, a marriage between persons of different races orreligions; specifically, one between a Roman Catholic and aProtestant.-- Mixed number, a whole number and a fraction taken together.-- Mixed train, a railway train containing both passenger andfreight cars.-- Mixed voices (Mus.), voices of both males and females united inthe same performance.
mixedly: In a mixed or mingled manner.
mixen: A compost heap; a dunghill. Chaucer. Tennyson.
mixer: One who, or that which, mixes.
mixogamous: Pairing with several males; -- said of certain fishes of whichseveral males accompany each female during spawning.
mixolydian mode: The seventh ecclesiastical mode, whose scale commences on G.
mixtly: With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly. Bacon.
mixture: A kind of liquid medicine made up of many ingredients; esp., asopposed to solution, a liquid preparation in which the solidingredients are not completely dissolved.
mizmaze: A maze or labyrinth. [Obs.]
mizzen: Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails,etc.
mizzenmast: The hindmost mast of a three-masted vessel, or of a yawl-riggedvessel.
mizzle: Mist; fine rain.
mizzy: A bog or quagmire. [Obs.] Ainsworth.
mnemonician: One who instructs in the art of improving or using the memory.
mnemonics: The art of memory; a system of precepts and rules intended toassist the memory; artificial memory.
mnemosyne: The goddess of memory and the mother of the Muses.
mnemotechny: Mnemonics.
mo: More; -- usually, more in number. [Obs.]An hundred thousand mo. Chaucer.Likely to find mo to commend than to imitate it. Fuller.
moa: Any one of several very large extinct species of wingless birdsbelonging to Dinornis, and other related genera, of the suborderDinornithes, found in New Zealand. They are allied to the apteryx andthe ostrich. They were probably exterminated by the natives beforeNew Zealand was discovered by Europeans. Some species were muchlarger than the ostrich.
moabite: One of the posterity of Moab, the son of Lot. (Gen. xix. 37.)Also used adjectively.
moabite stone: A block of black basalt, found at Dibon in Moab by Rev. F. A.Klein, Aug. 19, 1868, which bears an inscription of thirty-fourlines, dating from the 9th century b. c., and written in the Moabitealphabet, the oldest Phonician type of the Semitic alphabet. Itrecords the victories of Mesha, king of Moab, esp. those over Israel(2 Kings iii. 4, 5, 27).
moabitess: A female Moabite. Ruth i. 22.
moabitish: Moabite. Ruth ii. 6.
moanful: Full of moaning; expressing sorrow.-- Moan"ful*ly, adv.
moat: A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortifiedplace, sometimes filled with water; a ditch.
moate: To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute. [Obs.]
mob: A mobcap. Goldsmith.
mobbish: Like a mob; tumultuous; lawless; as, a mobbish act. Bp. Kent.
mobcap: A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, onetying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the samematerial as the cap itself. Thackeray.
mobile: Capable of being moved, aroused, or excited; capable ofspontaneous movement.
mobilization: The act of mobilizing.
mobilize: To put in a state of readiness for active service in war, as anarmy corps.
moble: To wrap the head of in a hood. [Obs.] Shak.
mobles: See Moebles. [Obs.]
mobocracy: A condition in which the lower classes of a nation controlpublic affairs without respect to law, precedents, or vested rights.It is good name that Dr. Stevens has given to our present situation(for one can not call it a government), a mobocracy. Walpole.
mobocrat: One who favors a form of government in which the unintelligentpopulace rules without restraint. Bayne.
mobocratic: Of, or relating to, a mobocracy.
moccasin: A poisonous snake of the Southern United States. The watermoccasin (Ancistrodon piscivorus) is usually found in or near water.Above, it is olive brown, barred with black; beneath, it is brownishyellow, mottled with darker. The upland moccasin is Ancistrodonatrofuscus. They resemble rattlesnakes, but are without rattles.Moccasin flower (Bot.), a species of lady's slipper (Cypripediumacaule) found in North America. The lower petal is two inches long,and forms a rose-colored moccasin-shaped pouch. It grows in richwoods under coniferous trees.
moccasined: Covered with, or wearing, a moccasin or moccasins. "Moccasinedfeet." Harper's Mag.
moche: A bale of raw silk.
mochel: Much. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mochila: A large leather flap which covers the saddletree. [WesternU.S.]
mock: To make sport contempt or in jest; to speak in a scornful orjeering manner.When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed Job xi. 3.She had mocked at his proposal. Froude.
mockable: Such as can be mocked. Shak.
mockado: A stuff made in imitation of velvet; -- probably the same asmock velvet. [Obs.]Our rich mockado doublet. Ford.
mockadour: See Mokadour. [Obs.]
mockage: Mockery. [Obs.] Fuller.
mockbird: The European sedge warbler (Acrocephalus phragmitis).
mocker: A mocking bird. Mocker nut (Bot.), a kind of hickory (Caryatomentosa) and its fruit, which is far inferior to the true shagbarkhickory nut.
mocking: Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision;mimicking; derisive. Mocking bird (Zoöl.), a North American singingbird (Mimus polyglottos), remarkable for its exact imitations of thenotes of other birds. Its back is gray; the tail and wings areblackish, with a white patch on each wing; the outer tail feathersare partly white. The name is also applied to other species of thesame genus, found in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.-- Mocking thrush (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Harporhynchus,as the brown thrush (H. rufus).-- Mocking wren (Zoöl.), any American wren of the genus Thryothorus,esp. T. Ludovicianus.
mockingly: By way of derision; in a contemptuous or mocking manner.
mockingstock: A butt of sport; an object of derision. [R.]
mockish: Mock; counterfeit; sham. [Obs.]
mockle: See Mickle.
moco: A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guineapig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy.
modal: Indicating, or pertaining to, some mode of conceivingexistence, or of expressing thought.
modalist: One who regards Father, Son, and Spirit as modes of being, andnot as persons, thus denying personal distinction in the Trinity.Eadie.
modality: A modal relation or quality; a mode or point of view underwhich an object presents itself to the mind. According to Kant, thequality of propositions, as assertory, problematical, or apodeictic.
modally: In a modal manner.A compound proposition, the parts of which are united modally ... bythe particles "as" and "so." Gibbs.
mode: Any combination of qualities or relations, considered apartfrom the substance to which they belong, and treated as entities;more generally, condition, or state of being; manner or form ofarrangement or manifestation; form, as opposed to matter.Modes I call such complex ideas, which, however compounded, containnot in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but areconsidered as dependencies on, or affections of, substances. Locke.
model: Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house;a model husband.
modeler: One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art. [Written alsomodeller.]
modeling: The act or art of making a model from which a work of art is tobe executed; the formation of a work of art from some plasticmaterial. Also, in painting, drawing, etc., the expression orindication of solid form. [Written also modelling.] Modeling plane, asmall plane for planing rounded objects.-- Modeling wax, beeswax melted with a little Venice turpentine, orother resinous material, and tinted with coloring matter, usuallyred, -- used in modeling.
modelize: To model. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
modena: A certain crimsonlike color. Good.
modenese: Of or pertaining to Modena or its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
moder: To moderate. [Obs.]
moderable: Modeate; temperate. [Obs.]
moderance: Moderation. [Obs.] Caxton.
moderate: Kept within due bounds; observing reasonable limits; notexcessive, extreme, violent, or rigorous; limited; restrained; as:(a) Limited in quantity; sparing; temperate; frugal; as, moderate ineating or drinking; a moderate table.(b) Limited in degree of activity, energy, or excitement; reasonable;calm; slow; as, moderate language; moderate endeavors.(c) Not extreme in opinion, in partisanship, and the like; as, amoderate Calvinist.A number of moderate members managed ... to obtain a majority in athin house. Swift.
moderately: In a moderate manner or degree; to a moderate extent.Each nymph but moderately fair. Waller.
moderateness: The quality or state of being moderate; temperateness;moderation.
moderation: The first public examinations for degrees at the University ofOxford; -- usually contracted to mods.
moderatism: Moderation in doctrines or opinion, especially in politics orreligion.
moderato: With a moderate degree of quickness; moderately. Allegromoderato, a little slower than allegro.-- Andante moderato, a little faster than andante.
moderatorship: The office of a moderator.
moderatress: A female moderator. Fuller.
moderatrix: A female moderator.
modern: A person of modern times; -- opposed to ancient. Pope.
modernism: Modern practice; a thing of recent date; esp., a modern usageor mode of expression.
modernist: One who admires the moderns, or their ways and fashions.
modernity: Modernness; something modern. Walpole.
modernization: The act of rendering modern in style; the act or process ofcausing to conform to modern of thinking or acting.
modernize: To render modern; to adapt to modern person or things; to causeto conform to recent or present usage or taste. Percy.
modernizer: One who modernizes.
modernly: In modern times. Milton.
modernness: The quality or state of being modern; recentness; novelty. M.Arnold.
modestly: In a modest manner.
modicity: Moderateness; smallness; meanness. [Obs.]
modicum: A little; a small quantity; a measured simply. "Modicums ofwit." Shak.Her usual modicum of beer and punch. Thackeray.
modifiability: Capability of being modified; state or quality of beingmodifiable.
modifiable: Capable of being modified; liable to modification.
modificable: Modifiable. [Obs.]
modificate: To qualify. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
modification: The act of modifying, or the state of being modified; amodified form or condition; state as modified; a change; as, themodification of an opinion, or of a machine; the variousmodifications of light. Bentley.
modificative: That which modifies or qualifies, as a word or clause.
modificatory: Tending or serving to modify; modifying. Max Müller.
modifier: One who, or that which, modifies. Hume.
modillion: The enriched block or horizontal bracket generally found underthe cornice of the Corinthian and Composite entablature, andsometimes, less ornamented, in the Ionic and other orders; -- socalled because of its arrangement at regulated distances.
modiolar: Shaped like a bushel measure.
modiolus: The central column in the osseous cochlea of the ear.
modish: According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to thefashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; amodish feast. Dryden. "Modish forms of address." Barrow.-- Mod"ish*ly, adv.-- Mod"ish*ness, n.
modist: One who follows the fashion.
modiste: A female maker of, or dealer in, articles of fashion,especially of the fashionable dress of ladies; a woman who givesdirection to the style or mode of dress.
modius: A dry measure, containing about a peck.
modocs: A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting NorthernCalifornia. They are nearly extinct.
modular: Of or pertaining to mode, modulation, module, or modius; as,modular arrangement; modular accent; modular measure.
modulate: To pass from one key into another.
modulation: A change of key, whether transient, or until the music becomesestablished in the new key; a shifting of the tonality of a piece, sothat the harmonies all center upon a new keynote or tonic; the art oftransition out of the original key into one nearly related, and soon, it may be, by successive changes, into a key quite remote. Thereare also sudden and unprepared modulations.
modulator: One who, or that which, modulates. Denham.
module: The size of some one part, as the diameter of semi-diameter ofthe base of a shaft, taken as a unit of measure by which theproportions of the other parts of the composition are regulated.Generally, for columns, the semi-diameter is taken, and divided intoa certain number of parts, called minutes (see Minute), though oftenthe diameter is taken, and any dimension is said to be so manymodules and minutes in height, breadth, or projection.
modulus: A quantity or coefficient, or constant, which expresses themeasure of some specified force, property, or quality, as ofelasticity, strength, efficiency, etc.; a parameter. Modulus of amachine, a formula expressing the work which a given machine canperform under the conditions involved in its construction; therelation between the work done upon a machine by the moving power,and that yielded at the working points, either constantly, if itsmotion be uniform, or in the interval of time which it occupies inpassing from any given velocity to the same velocity again, if itsmotion be variable; -- called also the efficiency of the machine.Mosley. Rankine.-- Modulus of a system of logarithms (Math.), a number by which allthe Napierian logarithms must be multiplied to obtain the logarithmsin another system.-- Modulus of elasticity. (a) The measure of the elastic force ofany substance, expressed by the ratio of a stress on a given unit ofthe substance to the accompanying distortion, or strain. (b) Anexpression of the force (usually in terms of the height in feet orweight in pounds of a column of the same body) which would benecessary to elongate a prismatic body of a transverse section equalto a given unit, as a square inch or foot, to double, or to compressit to half, its original length, were that degree of elongation orcompression possible, or within the limits of elasticity; -- calledalso Young's modulus.-- Modulus of rupture, the measure of the force necessary to break agiven substance across, as a beam, expressed by eighteen times theload which is required to break a bar of one inch square, supportedflatwise at two points one foot apart, and loaded in the middlebetween the points of support. Rankine.
modus: A qualification involving the idea of variation or departurefrom some general rule or form, in the way of either restriction orenlargement, according to the circumstances of the case, as in thewill of a donor, an agreement between parties, and the like. Bracton.
modus vivendi: Mode, or manner, of living; hence, a temporary arrangement ofaffairs until disputed matters can be settled.
mody: Fashionable. [R.]
moe: A wry face or mouth; a mow. [Obs.]
moebles: Movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble).[Obs.] Chaucer.
moelline: An unguent for the hair.
moellon: Rubble masonry.
moesogothic: Belonging to the Moesogoths, a branch of the Goths who settledin Moesia.
moeve: To move. [Obs.] Chaucer.
moff: A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia.
mog: To move away; to go off. [Prov. Eng. or Local, U. S.]
moggan: A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knittedmaterial. [Scot.]
mogul: A heavy locomotive for freight traffic, having three pairs ofconnected driving wheels and a two-wheeled truck. Great, or Grand,Mogul, the sovereign of the empire founded in Hindostan by theMongols under Baber in the sixteenth century. Hence, a very importantpersonage; a lord; -- sometimes only mogul. Dryden.
moha: A kind of millet (Setaria Italica); German millet.
mohair: The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor;also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of suchfabric.
mohammedan: Of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutionsfounded by Mohammed. [Written also Mahometan, Mahomedan, Muhammadan,etc.]
mohammedan calendar: A lunar calendar reckoning from the year of the hegira, 622 a.d. Thirty of its years constitute a cycle, of which the 2d, 5th, 7th,10th, 13th, 16th, 18th, 21st, 24th, 26th, and 29th are leap years,having 355 days; the others are common, having 354 days. By thefollowing tables any Mohammedan date may be changed into theChristian date, or vice versa, for the years 1900-1935 a. d.
mohammedan era: The era in use in Mohammedan countries. See Mohammedan year,below.
mohammedan year: The year used by Mohammedans, consisting of twelve lunar monthswithout intercalation, so that they retrograde through all theseasons in about 32½ years. The Mohammedan era begins with the year622 a.d., the first day of the Mohammedan year 1332 begin Nov. 30,1913, acording to the Gregorian calendar.
mohawk: One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations.They formerly inhabited the valley of the Mohawk River.
mohicans: A tribe of Lenni-Lenape Indians who formerly inhabited WesternConnecticut and Eastern New York. [Written also Mohegans.]
moho: A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli) formerly inhabiting NewZealand, but now supposed to be extinct. It was incapable of flight.See Notornis.
mohock: See Mohawk.
moholi: See Maholi.
mohr: A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr), having horns on whichare eleven or twelve very prominent rings. It is one of the specieswhich produce bezoar. [Written also mhorr.]
mohur: A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silverrupees, or $7.21. Malcom.
moider: To toil. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
moidore: A gold coin of Portugal, valued at about 27s. sterling.
moil: To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile.Thou ... doest thy mind in dirty pleasures moil. Spenser.
moile: A kind of high shoe anciently worn. [Written also moyle.]
moineau: A small flat bastion, raised in the middle of an overlongcurtain.
moira: The deity who assigns to every man his lot.
moire metallique: A crystalline or frosted appearance produced by some acids ontin plate; also, the tin plate thus treated.
moist: To moisten. [Obs.] Shak.
moistener: One who, or that which, moistens. Johnson.
moistful: Full of moisture. [R.]
moistless: Without moisture; dry. [R.]
moistness: The quality or state of being moist.
moistureless: Without moisture.
moisty: Moist. [Obs.]
moither: To perplex; to confuse. [Prov. Eng.] Lamb.
mojarra: Any of certain basslike marine fishes (mostly of tropical seas,and having a deep, compressed body, protracile mouth, and largesilvery scales) constituting the family Gerridæ, as Gerres plumieri,found from Florida to Brazil and used as food. Also, any of numerousother fishes of similar appearance but belonging to other families.
mokadour: A handkerchief. [Obs.]
moke: A donkey. [Cant] Thackeray.
moky: Misty; dark; murky; muggy. [Obs.]
mola: See Sunfish, 1.
molar: Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the propertiesor motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules oratoms. Carpenter.
molary: Same as 2d Molar.
molasse: A soft Tertiary sandstone; -- applied to a rock occurring inSwitzerland. See Chart of Geology.
molasses: The thick, brown or dark colored, viscid, uncrystallizablesirup which drains from sugar, in the process of manufacture; anythick, viscid, sweet sirup made from vegetable juice or sap, as ofthe sorghum or maple. See Treacle.
mold: A spot; a blemish; a mole. [Obs.] Spenser.
mole: A mass of fleshy or other more or less solid matter generatedin the uterus.
mole-eyed: Having eyes like those of the mole; having imperfect sight.
molebut: The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola). [Written also molebat.]
molecast: A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill.Mortimer.
molech: The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices wereoffered; Moloch. Lev. xviii. 21.
molecular: Pertaining to, connected with, produced by, or consisting of,molecules; as, molecular forces; molecular groups of atoms, etc.Molecular attraction (Phys.), attraction acting between the moleculesof bodies, and at insensible distances.-- Molecular weight (Chem.), the weight of a molecule of any gas orvapor as compared with the hydrogen atom as a standard; the sum ofthe atomic weights of the constituents of a molecule; thus, themolecular weight of water (H2O) is 18.
molecularity: The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality ofbeing molecular.
molecularly: With molecules; in the manner of molecules. W. R. Grove.
molecule: The smallest part of any substance which possesses thecharacteristic properties and qualities of that substance, and whichcan exist alone in a free state.
molehill: A little hillock of earth thrown up by moles working underground; hence, a very small hill, or an insignificant obstacle ordifficulty.Having leapt over such mountains, lie down before a molehill. South.
moleskin: Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole;esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian.
molest: To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; tovex.They have molested the church with needless opposition. Hooker.
molestation: The act of molesting, or the state of being molested;disturbance; annoyance.
molester: One who molests.
molestful: Troublesome; vexatious. [R.]
molewarp: See Moldwarp.
moliminous: Of great bulk or consequence; very important. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
moline: The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by restingon the spindle; a millrind. Cross moline (Her.), a cross each arm ofwhich is divided at the end into two rounded branches or divisions.
molinism: The doctrines of the Molinists, somewhat resembling the tenetsof the Arminians.
molinist: A follower of the opinions of Molina, a Spanish Jesuit (inrespect to grace); an opposer of the Jansenists.
moll: Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor.
mollah: One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkishtitle of respect for a religious and learned man. [Written alsomoolah.]
molle: Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat.
mollebart: An agricultural implement used in Flanders, consisting of akind of large shovel drawn by a horse and guided by a man. [Writtenalso mollebært and mouldebært.] Simmonds.
mollemoke: Any one of several species of large pelagic petrels andfulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and severalspecies of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean. See Fulmar. [Writtenalso mollymawk, malmock, mollemock, mallemocke, etc.]
mollient: Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient.
molliently: Assuagingly.
mollifiable: Capable of being mollified.
mollification: The act of mollifying, or the state of being mollified; asoftening. Chaucer.
mollifier: One who, or that which, mollifies. Bacon.
mollinet: A little mill.
mollipilose: Having soft hairs; downy.
mollities: Unnatural softness of any organ or part. Dunglison.
mollitude: Softness; effeminacy; weakness. [R.]
mollusc: Same as Mollusk.
mollusca: One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, including theclasses Cephalopoda, Gastropoda, PteropodaScaphopoda, andLamellibranchiata, or Conchifera. These animals have an unsegmentedbilateral body, with most of the organs and parts paired, but notrepeated longitudinally. Most of them develop a mantle, whichincloses either a branchial or a pulmonary cavity. They are generallymore or less covered and protected by a calcareous shell, which maybe univalve, bivalve, or multivalve.
molluscan: Of or pertaining to mollusks.-- n.
molluscoid: Resembling the true mollusks; belonging to the Molluscoidea.-- n.
molluscoidal: Molluscoid.
molluscoidea: A division of Invertebrata which includes the classesBrachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.
molluscous: Molluscan.
molluscum: A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, ofvarious forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from theresemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals. Dunglison.
mollusk: One of the Mollusca. [Written also mollusc.]
molly: Same as Mollemoke.
molly-mawk: See Mollemoke.
moloch: The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom humansacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively.
molosse: See Molossus.
molosses: Molasses. [Obs.]
molossine: A bat of the genus Molossus, as the monk bat.
molossus: A foot of three long syllables. [Written also molosse.]
molt: of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser.
moltable: Capable of assuming a molten state; meltable; fusible. [Obs.]
molto: Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow.
moly: A kind of garlic (Allium Moly) with large yellow flowers; --called also golden garlic.
molybdate: A salt of molybdic acid.
molybdena: See Molybdenite.
molybdenite: A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses orscales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.
molybdenous: See Molybdous.
molybdenum: A rare element of the chromium group, occurring in nature inthe minerals molybdenite and wulfenite, and when reduced obtained asa hard, silver-white, difficulty fusible metal. Symbol Mo. Atomicweight 95.9.
molybdic: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,designating those compounds in which the element has a highervalence, as contrasted with molybdous compounds; as, molybdic oxide.
molybdite: Molybdic ocher.
molybdous: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valenceas contrasted with molybdic compounds.
mome: A dull, silent person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Spenser.
moment: An infinitesimal change in a varying quantity; an increment ordecrement. [Obs.]
momental: Of or pertaining to moment or momentum.
momentally: For a moment. [Obs.]
momentarily: Every moment; from moment to moment. Shenstone.
momentariness: The state or quality of being momentary; shortness of duration.
momentary: Done in a moment; continuing only a moment; lasting a veryshort time; as, a momentary pang.This momentary joy breeds months of pain. Shak.
momentous: Of moment or consequence; very important; weighty; as, amomentous decision; momentous affairs.-- Mo*men"tous*ly, adv.-- Mo*men"tous*ness, n.
momentum: The quantity of motion in a moving body, being alwaysproportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into the velocity;impetus.
momier: A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland,France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19thcentury.
mommery: See Mummery. Rowe.
momot: See Motmot.
momus: The god of mockery and censure.
mon-: Same as Mono-.
mona: A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey(Cercopithecus mona). The body is dark olive, with a spot of white onthe haunches.
monachal: Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic.
monachism: The system and influences of a monastic life; monasticism.
monacid: Having one hydrogen atom replaceable by a negative or acid atomor radical; capable of neutralizing a monobasic acid; -- said ofbases, and of certain metals.
monad: The elementary and indestructible units which were conceived ofas endowed with the power to produce all the changes they undergo,and thus determine all physical and spiritual phenomena.
monadaria: The Infusoria.
monadelphia: A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens united into atube, or ring, by the filaments, as in the Mallow family.
monadiform: Having the form of a monad; resembling a monad in having one ormore filaments of vibratile protoplasm; as, monadiform young.
monadology: The doctrine or theory of monads.
monal: Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyanpheasant.
monamide: An amido compound with only one amido group.
monamine: A basic compound containing one amido group; as, methyl amineis a monamine.
monander: One of the Monandria.
monandria: A Linnæan class of plants embracing those having but a singlestamen.
monandrian: Same as Monandrous.
monandric: Of or pertaining to monandry; practicing monandry as a systemof marriage.
monandrous: Of or pertaining to the monandria; having but one stamen.
monandry: The possession by a woman of only one husband at the same time;-- contrasted with polyandry.
monanthous: Having but one flower; one-flowered. Gray.
monarch: A very large red and black butterfly (Danais Plexippus); --called also milkweed butterfly.
monarchal: Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal;imperial.Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows, withmonarchal pride. Milton.
monarchess: A female monarch. [Obs.]
monarchial: Monarchic. Burke.
monarchian: One of a sect in the early Christian church which rejected thedoctrine of the Trinity; -- called also patripassian.
monarchism: The principles of, or preference for, monarchy.
monarchist: An advocate of, or believer in, monarchy.
monarchize: To play the sovereign; to act the monarch. [R.] Shak.
monarchizer: One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist.
monarcho: The nickname of a crackbrained Italian who fancied himself anemperor. [Obs.] Shak.
monas: A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are manyspecies, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad.
monasterial: Of or pertaining to monastery, or to monastic life.-- Mon`as*te"ri*al*ly, adv.
monastery: A house of religious retirement, or of secusion from ordinarytemporal concerns, especially for monks; -- more rarely applied tosuch a house for females.
monastic: A monk.
monastically: In a monastic manner.
monasticism: The monastic life, system, or condition. Milman.
monasticon: A book giving an account of monasteries.
monaxial: Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane;as, monaxial development.
monazite: A mineral occurring usually in small isolated crystals, --phosphate of the cerium metals.
monday: The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.
monde: The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond.Le beau monde Etym
mone: The moon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
monembryony: The condition of an ovule having but a single embryo.-- Mon*em`bry*on"ic, a.
moner: One of the Monera.
monera: The lowest division of rhizopods, including those whichresemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus.
moneral: Of or pertaining to the Monera.
moneran: Of or pertaining to the Monera.-- n.
moneron: One of the Monera.
monerula: A germ in that stage of development in which its form is simplythat of a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm. It precedes the one-celled germ. So called from its likeness to a moner. Haeckel.
monesia: The bark, or a vegetable extract brought in solid cakes fromSouth America and believed to be derived from the bark, of the treeChrysophyllum glycyphloeum. It is used as an alterative andastringent.
monesin: The acrid principle of Monesia, sometimes used as a medicine.
monest: To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20).
monetary: Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary."The monetary relations of Europe." E. Everett. Monetary unit, thestandard of a national currency, as the dollar in the United States,the pound in England, the franc in France, the mark in Germany.
moneth: A month. [Obs.] Chaucer.
monetization: The act or process of converting into money, or of adopting asmoney; as, the monetization of silver.
monetize: To convert into money; to adopt as current money; as, tomonetize silver.
money: To supply with money. [Obs.]
money-making: The act or process of making money; the acquisition andaccumulation of wealth.Obstinacy in money-making. Milman.
moneyless: Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious. Swift.
moneywort: A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded oppositeleaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils.
mongcorn: See Mangcorn.
monger: To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- usedchiefly of discreditable traffic.
mongol: One of the Mongols.-- a.
mongolian: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.-- n.
mongolic: See Mongolian.
mongoloid: Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having racecharacteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of theMongols. Huxley.
mongrel: The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as ofdomestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton.
mongrelize: To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to producemongrels.
monied: See Moneyed.
monifier: A fossil fish.
moniliales: The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfectiare divided, including various forms.
moniliform: Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemblea string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna. SeeIllust. of Antenna.
moniment: Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, amark; an image; a superscription; a record. [Obs.] Spenser.
monish: To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham.
monisher: One who monishes; an admonisher. [Archaic]
monishment: Admonition. [Archaic]
monism: That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimateconstituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.
monist: A believer in monism.
monistic: Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism.
monition: A process in the nature of a summons to appear and answer.
monitive: Conveying admonition; admonitory. Barrow.
monitor: Any large Old World lizard of the genus Varanus; esp., theEgyptian species (V. Niloticus), which is useful because it devoursthe eggs and young of the crocodile. It is sometimes five or six feetlong.
monitor nozzle: A nozzle capable of turning completely round in a horizontalplane and having a limited play in a vertical plane, used inhydraulic mining, fire-extinguishing apparatus, etc.
monitorially: In a monitorial manner.
monitorship: The post or office of a monitor.
monitory: Giving admonition; instructing by way of caution; warning.Losses, miscarriages, and disappointments, are monitory andinstructive. L'Estrange.
monk: A blotch or spot of ink on a printed page, caused by the inknot being properly distributed. It is distinguished from a friar, orwhite spot caused by a deficiency of ink.
monkey: To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesqueor meddlesome manner. To monkey with, to handle in a meddlesomemanner. [Colloq.]
monkey-bread: The fruit of the Adansonia digitata; also, the tree. SeeAdansonia.
monkey-cup: See Nepenthes.
monkey-pot: The fruit of two South American trees (Lecythis Ollaria, and L.Zabucajo), which have for their fruit large, pot-shaped, woodycapsules containing delicious nuts, and opening almost explosively bya circular lid at the top. Vases and pots are made of this capsule.
monkeytail: A short, round iron bar or lever used in naval gunnery. Totten.
monkflower: A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds offlowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to besexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum,etc.).
monking: Monkish. [R.] Coleridge.
monkish: Like a monk, or pertaining to monks; monastic; as, monkishmanners; monkish dress; monkish solitude.-- Monk"ish*ness, n.
monkly: Like, or suitable to, a monk. [R.]
monkshood: A plant of the genus Aconitum; aconite. See Aconite.
mono: The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus).
monobasic: Capable of being neutralized by a univalent base or basicradical; having but one acid hydrogen atom to be replaced; -- said ofacids; as, acetic, nitric, and hydrochloric acids are monobasic.
monocarbonic: Containing one carboxyl group; as, acetic acid is amonocarbonic acid.
monocardian: Having a single heart, as fishes and amphibians.-- n.
monocarp: A monocarpic plant.
monocarpellary: Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry,and almond.
monocephalous: Having a solitary head; -- said of unbranched composite plants.
monoceros: The Unicorn, a constellation situated to the east Orion.
monochlamydeous: Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without acorolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx.
monochord: An instrument for experimenting upon the mathematical relationsof musical sounds. It consists of a single string stretched betweentwo bridges, one or both of which are movable, and which stand upon agraduated rule for the purpose of readily changing and measuring thelength of the part of the string between them.
monochromatic: Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of onecolor only. Monochromatic lamp (Opt.),a lamp whose flame yields raysof some one homogenous light. It is of great importance in opticalexperiments.
monochrome: A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with asingle color.
monochromic: Made, or done, with a single color; as, a monochromic picture.
monochromy: The art of painting or drawing in monochrome.
monochronic: Existing at the same time; contemporaneous.
monociliated: Having but one cilium.
monocle: An eyeglass for one eye. Simmonds.
monoclinal: Having one oblique inclination; -- applied to strata that dipin only one direction from the axis of elevation.
monocline: A monoclinal fold.
monoclinic: Having one oblique intersection; -- said of that system ofcrystallization in which the vertical axis is inclined to one, but atright angles to the other, lateral axis. See Crystallization.
monoclinous: Hermaphrodite, or having both stamens and pistils in everyflower.
monocondyla: A group of vertebrates, including the birds and reptiles, orthose that have only one occipital condyle; the Sauropsida.
monocotyl: Any monocotyledonous plant.
monocotyle: Monocotyledonous.
monocotyledon: A plant with only one cotyledon, or seed lobe.
monocotyledonous: Having only one cotyledon, seed lobe, or seminal leaf. Lindley.
monocracy: Government by a single person; undivided rule. Sydney Smith.
monocrat: One who governs alone.
monocrotic: Of, pertaining to, or showing, monocrotism; as, a monocroticpulse; a pulse of the monocrotic type.
monocrotism: That condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve orsphygmogram shows but a single crest, the dicrotic elevation entirelydisappearing.
monocule: A small crustacean with one median eye.
monoculous: Monocular. Glanvill.
monocystic: Of or pertaining to a division (Monocystidea) of Gregarinida,in which the body consists of one sac.
monodactylous: Having but one finger or claw.
monodelphia: The group that includes all ordinary or placental mammals; thePlacentalia. See Mammalia.
monodimetric: Dimetric.
monodist: A writer of a monody.
monodramatic: Pertaining to a monodrama.
monody: A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a singlemourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice.
monodynamic: Possessing but one capacity or power. "Monodynamic men." DeQuincey.
monodynamism: The theory that the various forms of activity in nature aremanifestations of the same force. G. H. Lewes.
monoecia: A Linnæan class of plants, whose stamens and pistils are indistinct flowers in the same plant.
monoecian: Of or pertaining to the Monoecia; monoecious.-- n.
monoecious: Having the sexes united in one individual, as when male andfemale flowers grow upon the same individual plant; hermaphrodite; --opposed to Ant
monoecism: The state or condition of being monoecious.
monogam: One of the Monogamia.
monogamia: A Linnæan order of plants, having solitary flowers with unitedanthers, as in the genus Lobelia.
monogamist: One who practices or upholds monogamy. Goldsmith.
monogamous: Same as Monogamian.
monogamy: State of being paired with a single mate.
monogastric: Having but a single stomach.
monogenesis: That form of reproduction which requires but one parent, as inreproduction by fission or in the formation of buds, etc., which dropoff and form new individuals; asexual reproduction. Haeckel.
monogenetic: One in genesis; resulting from one process of formation; --used of a mountain range. Dana.
monogenic: Of or pertaining to monogenesis.
monogenism: The theory or doctrine that the human races have a commonorigin, or constitute a single species.
monogenist: One who maintains that the human races are all of one species;-- opposed to polygenist.
monogenistic: Monogenic.
monogenous: Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual,reproduction.
monogeny: The doctrine that the members of the human race have all acommon origin.
monogoneutic: Having but one brood in a season.
monogrammal: See Monogrammic.
monogrammatic: Monogrammic.
monogrammic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram.
monogrammous: Monogrammic.
monograph: A written account or description of a single thing, or class ofthings; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.
monographer: A writer of a monograph.
monographist: One who writes a monograph.
monographous: Monographic. [Obs.]
monogyn: One of the Monogynia.
monogynia: A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only onestyle or stigma.
monogynian: Pertaining to the Monogynia; monogynous.-- n.
monogynous: Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma.
monogyny: The state or condition of being monogynous.
monohemerous: Lasting but one day.
monoicous: Monoecious.
monolatry: Worship of a single deity.
monolith: A single stone, especially one of large size, shaped into apillar, statue, or monument.
monolithal: Monolithic.
monolithic: Of or pertaining to a monolith; consisting of a single stone.
monologist: One who soliloquizes; esp., one who monopolizes conversation incompany. De Quincey.
monology: The habit of soliloquizing, or of monopolizing conversation.It was not by an insolent usurpation that Coleridge persisted inmonology through his whole life. De Quincey.
monomachist: One who fights in single combat; a duelist.
monomane: A monomaniac. [R.]
monomania: Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only;also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject ortrain of ideas to show mental derangement.
monomaniac: A person affected by monomania.
monome: A monomial.
monomerous: Composed of solitary parts, as a flower with one sepal, onepetal, one stamen, and one pistil.
monometallic: Consisting of one metal; of or pertaining to monometallism.
monometallism: The legalized use of one metal only, as gold, or silver, in thestandard currency of a country, or as a standard of money values. SeeBimetallism.
monometallist: One who believes in monometallism as opposed to bimetallism,etc.
monometer: A rhythmic series, consisting of a single meter.
monometric: Same as Isometric.
monomial: A single algebraic expression; that is, an expressionunconnected with any other by the sign of addition, substraction,equality, or inequality.
monomphalus: A form of double monster, in which two individuals are unitedby a common umbilicus.
mononomial: Monomyal.
monopathy: Suffering or sensibility in a single organ or function.-- Mon`o*path"ic, a.
monopersonal: Having but one person, or form of existence.
monopetalous: Having only one petal, or the corolla in one piece, or composedof petals cohering so as to form a tube or bowl; gamopetalous.
monophanous: Having one the same appearance; having a mutual resemblance.
monophonic: Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophoniccomposition; -- opposed to Ant
monophthongal: Consisting of, or pertaining to, a monophthong.
monophyletic: Of or pertaining to a single family or stock, or to developmentfrom a single common parent form; -- opposed to polyphyletic; as,monophyletic origin.
monophyllous: One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllousinvolucre or calyx.
monophyodont: Having but one set of teeth; -- opposed to diphyodont.
monophysite: One of a sect, in the ancient church, who maintained that thehuman and divine in Jesus Christ constituted but one compositenature. Also used adjectively.
monophysitical: Of or pertaining to Monophysites, or their doctrines.
monoplast: A monoplastic element.
monoplastic: That has one form, or retains its primary form, as, amonoplastic element.
monoplegia: Paralysis affecting a single limb.
monopneumona: A suborder of Dipnoi, including the Ceratodus. [Written alsomonopneumonia.]
monopode: A monopodium.
monopodial: Having a monopodium or a single and continuous axis, as abirchen twig or a cornstalk.
monopodium: A single and continuous vegetable axis; -- opposed tosympodium.
monopody: A measure of but a single foot.
monopoler: A monopolist. [Obs.]
monopolist: One who monopolizes; one who has a monopoly; one who favorsmonopoly.
monopolistic: Of or pertaining to a monopolist. North Am. Rev.
monopolite: A monopolist. Sylvester.
monopolize: To acquire a monopoly of; to have or get the exclusiveprivilege or means of dealing in, or the exclusive possession of; toengross the whole of; as, to monopolize the coffee trade; tomonopolize land.
monopolizer: One who monopolizes.
monopolylogue: An exhibition in which an actor sustains many characters.
monopsychism: The doctrine that there is but one immortal soul or intellectwith which all men are endowed.
monopteral: Round and without a cella; consisting of a single ring ofcolumns supporting a roof; -- said esp. of a temple.
monopteron: A circular temple consisting of a roof supported on columns,without a cella.
monopyrenous: Having but a single stone or kernel.
monorganic: Belonging to, or affecting, a single organ, or set of organs.
monorhina: The Marsipobranchiata.
monorhyme: A composition in verse, in which all the lines end with thesame rhyme.
monosepalous: Having only one sepal, or the calyx in one piece or composed ofthe sepals united into one piece; gamosepalous.
monosperm: A monospermous plant.
monospherical: Consisting of one sphere only.
monostich: A composition consisting of one verse only.
monostichous: Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowersin grasses of the tribe Chloridæ.
monostrophe: A metrical composition consisting of a single strophe.
monostrophic: Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written inunvaried measure. Milton.
monosulphide: A sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to amonoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant
monosulphuret: See Monosulphide.
monosyllabic: Being a monosyllable, or composed of monosyllables; as, amonosyllabic word; a monosyllabic language.-- Mon`o*syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv.
monosyllabism: The state of consisting of monosyllables, or having amonosyllabic form; frequent occurrence of monosyllables.
monosyllable: A word of one syllable.
monosyllabled: Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables. Cleveland.
monotessaron: A single narrative framed from the statements of the fourevangelists; a gospel harmony. [R.]
monothalama: A division of Foraminifera including those that have only onechamber.
monothalaman: A foraminifer having but one chamber.
monothalamous: One-chambered.
monothalmic: Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits. R. Brown.
monothecal: Having a single loculament.
monotheism: The doctrine or belief that there is but one God.
monotheist: One who believes that there is but one God.
monotheistic: Of or pertaining to monotheism.
monothelite: One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will ashe had but one nature. Cf. Monophysite. Gibbon.
monothelitic: Of or pertaining to the Monothelites, or their doctrine.
monotocous: Bearing fruit but once; monocarpic.
monotomous: Having a distinct cleavage in a single direction only.
monotone: A single unvaried tone or sound.
monotonist: One who talks in the same strain or on the same subject untilweariness is produced. Richardson.
monotonous: Uttered in one unvarying tone; continued with dull uniformity;characterized by monotony; without change or variety; wearisome.-- Mo*not"o*nous*ly, adv.-- Mo*not"o*nous*ness, n.
monotremata: A subclass of Mammalia, having a cloaca in which the ducts ofthe urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate, as in birds.The female lays eggs like a bird. See Duck mole, under Duck, andEchidna.
monotrematous: Of or pertaining to the Monotremata.
monotreme: One of the Monotremata.
monotriglyph: A kind of intercolumniation in an entablature, in which onlyone triglyph and two metopes are introduced.
monotropa: A genus of parasitic or saprophytic plants including the Indianpipe and pine sap. The name alludes to the dropping end of the stem.
monovalent: Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent.
monoxide: An oxide containing one atom of oxygen in each molecule; as,barium monoxide.
monoxylon: A canoe or boat made from one piece of timber.
monoxylous: Made of one piece of wood.
monozoa: A division of Radiolaria; -- called also Monocyttaria.-- Mon`o*zo"ic, a.
monroe doctrine: See under Doctrine.
monseigneur: My lord; -- a title in France of a person of high birth orrank; as, Monseigneur the Prince, or Monseigneur the Archibishop. Itwas given, specifically, to the dauphin, before the Revolution of1789. (Abbrev. Mgr.)
monsignore: My lord; -- an ecclesiastical dignity bestowed by the pope,entitling the bearer to social and domestic rank at the papal court.(Abbrev. Mgr.)
monsoon: A wind blowing part of the year from one direction, alternatingwith a wind from the opposite direction; -- a term appliedparticularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean, which blow fromthe southwest from the latter part of May to the middle of September,and from the northeast from about the middle of October to the middleof December.
monster: Monstrous in size. Pope.
monstrance: A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed toview.
monstration: The act of demonstrating; proof. [Obs.]A certain monstration. Grafton.
monstrosity: The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order ofnature; that which is monstrous; a monster. South.A monstrosity never changes the name or affects the immutability of aspecies. Adanson (Trans. ).
monstrous: Exceedingly; very; very much. "A monstrous thick oil on thetop." Bacon.And will be monstrous witty on the poor. Dryden.
monstrously: In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as,monstrously wicked. "Who with his wife is monstrously in love."Dryden.
monstrousness: The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual,extraordinary. Shak.
monstruosity: Monstrosity. [Obs.] Shak.
monstruous: Monstrous. [Obs.]
mont: Mountain.
mont de piete: One of certain public pawnbroking establishments whichoriginated in Italy in the 15th century, the object of which was tolend money at a low rate of interest to poor people in need; --called also mount of piety. The institution has been adopted in othercountries, as in Spain and France. See Lombard-house.
montaigne: A mountain. [Obs.]
montanic: Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains.
montanist: A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the secondcentury, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt inhim, and employed him as an instrument for purifying and guiding menin the Christian life.-- Mon`ta*nis"tic, Mon`ta*nis"tic*al, a.
montant: An upward thrust or blow. Shak.
monte: A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice orcards.
monte-acid: An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced tosome height in a sulphuric acid manufactory.
monte-jus: An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steamin a reservoir containing the liquid.
monteith: See Monteth.
montem: A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school,England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock nearthe Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support atthe university the senior scholar of the school.
montero: An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen. Bacon.
montessori method: A system of training and instruction, primarily for use withnormal children aged from three to six years, devised by Dr. MariaMontessori while teaching in the "Houses of Childhood" (schools inthe poorest tenement districts of Rome, Italy), and first fullydescribed by her in 1909. Leading features are freedom for physicalactivity (no stationary desks and chairs), informal and individualinstruction, the very early development of writing, and an extendedsensory and motor training (with special emphasis on vision, touch,perception of movement, and their interconnections), mediated by apatented, standardized system of "didactic apparatus," which isdeclared to be "auto-regulative." Most of the chief features of themethod are borrowed from current methods used in many institutionsfor training feeble-minded children, and dating back especially tothe work of the French-American physician Edouard O. Seguin (1812-80).
montgolfier: A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by afire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen andJoseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up afire balloon.
month: One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; thetwelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of asynodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, aperiod of four weeks is often called a month.
monthling: That which is a month old, or which lives for a month. [R.]Wordsworth.
monthly: A publication which appears regularly once a month.
monticle: A little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence.[Written also monticule.]
monticulate: Furnished with monticles or little elevations.
monticule: See Monticle.
monticulous: Monticulate.
montiform: Resembling a mountain in form.
montigenous: Produced on a mountain.
montoir: A stone used in mounting a horse; a horse block.
monton: A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation.
montross: See Matross. [Obs.]
montrue: That on which anything is mounted; a setting; hence, a saddlehorse. [Obs.] Spenser.
monureid: Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regardedas derived from one molecule of urea; as, alloxan is a monureid.[Written also monureide.]
moo: See Mo. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mood: Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, aspositive, possible, hypothetical, etc., without regard to otheraccidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicativemood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode.
mooder: Mother. [Obs.] Chaucer.
moodily: In a moody manner.
moodiness: The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability tostrange or violent moods.
moodir: The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. [Written also mudir.]
moodish: Moody. [Obs.]
moodishly: Moodily. [Obs.]
moody: See Mollah.
moolley: Same as Mulley.
moon: A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. Moon blindness. (a)(Far.) A kind of ophthalmia liable to recur at intervals of three orfour weeks. (b) (Med.) Hemeralopia.-- Moon dial, a dial used to indicate time by moonlight.-- Moon face, a round face like a full moon.-- Moon madness, lunacy. [Poetic] -- Moon month, a lunar month.-- Moon trefoil (Bot.), a shrubby species of medic (Medicagoarborea). See Medic.-- Moon year, a lunar year, consisting of lunar months, beingsometimes twelve and sometimes thirteen.
moon-culminating: Culminating, or coming to the meredian, at or about the sametime with the moon; -- said of a star or stars, esp. of certain starsselected beforehand, and named in an ephemeris (as the NauticalAlmanac), as suitable to be observed in connection with the moon atculmination, for determining terrestrial longitude.
moon-eyed: Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed;purblind.
moon-faced: Having a round, full face.
moonbeam: A ray of light from the moon.
moonblind: Dim-sighted; purblind.
moonblink: A temporary blindness, or impairment of sight, said to becaused by sleeping in the moonlight; -- sometimes called nyctalopia.
mooned: Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon. "Sharpeningin mooned horns." "Mooned Ashtaroth." Milton.
mooner: One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck.[R.] Dickens.
moonery: Conduct of one who moons. [R.]
moonet: A little moon. [R.] Bp. Hall.
moong: Same as Mung.
moonglade: The bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse ofwater. [Poetic]
moonie: The European goldcrest.
moonish: Like the moon; variable.Being but a moonish youth. Shak.
moonless: Being without a moon or moonlight.
moonlight: The light of the moon.-- a.
moonling: A simpleton; a lunatic. [Obs.]
moonlit: Illumined by the moon. "The moonlit sea." Moore. "Moonlitdells." Lowell.
moonraker: Same as Moonsail.
moonrise: The rising of the moon above the horizon; also, the time of itsrising.
moonsail: A sail sometimes carried in light winds, above a skysail. R. H.Dana, Jr.
moonseed: A climbing plant of the genus Menispermum; -- so called fromthe crescentlike form of the seeds.
moonset: The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time whenthe moon sets.
moonshee: A Mohammedan professor or teacher of language. [India]
moonshine: Moonlight. [R.] Clarendon.
moonshiner: A person engaged in illicit distilling; -- so called becausethe work is largely done at night. [Cant, U.S.]
moonshining: Illicit distilling. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]
moonshiny: Moonlight. [Colloq.]I went to see them in a moonshiny night. Addison.
moonstone: A nearly pellucid variety of feldspar, showing pearly oropaline reflections from within. It is used as a gem. The bestspecimens come from Ceylon.
moonstricken: See Moonstruck.
moor: Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia whichhave adopted the Mohammedan religion. "In Spanish history the termsMoors, Saracens, and Arabs are synonymous." Internat. Cyc.
moorage: A place for mooring.
moorball: A fresh-water alga (Cladophora Ægagropila) which forms aglobular mass.
moorband: See Moorpan.
mooress: A female Moor; a Moorish woman.
mooring: The place or condition of a ship thus confined.And the tossed bark in moorings swings. Moore.Mooring block (Naut.), a heavy block of cast iron sometimes used asan anchor for mooring vessels.
moorish: Having the characteristics of a moor or heath. "Moorish fens."Thomson.
moorland: Land consisting of a moor or moors.
moorpan: A clayey layer or pan underlying some moors, etc.
moorstone: A species of English granite, used as a building stone.
mooruk: A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in NewBritain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping. It issmaller and has stouter legs than the common cassowary. Its crest isbiloted; the neck and breast are black; the back, rufous mixed withblack; and the naked skin of the neck, blue.
moory: Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish.Mortimer.As when thick mists arise from moory vales. Fairfax.
moose: A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A. Americanus),native of the Northern United States and Canada. The adult male isabout as large as a horse, and has very large, palmate antlers. Itclosely resembles the European elk, and by many zoölogists isconsidered the same species. See Elk. Moose bird (Zoöl.), the Canadajayor whisky jack. See Whisky jack.-- Moose deer. Same as Moose.-- Moose yard (Zoöl.), a locality where moose, in winter, herdtogether in a forest to feed and for mutual protection.
moot: See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
moot-hill: A hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open airwhere public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called,in Scotland, mute-hill. J. R. Green.
mootable: Capable of being mooted.
mooter: A disputer of a mooted case.
mootman: One who argued moot cases in the inns of court.
mop: A made-up face; a grimace. "What mops and mowes it makes!"Beau. & Fl.
mopboard: A narrow board nailed against the wall of a room next to thefloor; skirting board; baseboard. See Baseboard.
mope: To be dull and spiritless. "Moping melancholy." Milton.A sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope. Shak.
mope-eyed: Shortsighted; purblind.
mopeful: Mopish. [R.]
mopish: Dull; spiritless; dejected.-- Mop"ish*ly, adv.-- Mop"ish*ness, n.
moplah: One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar.
moppet: A long-haired pet dog.
mopsical: Shortsighted; mope-eyed.
mopstick: The long handle of a mop.
mopus: A mope; a drone. [Obs.] Swift.
moquette: A kind of carpet having a short velvety pile.
mora: A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quickmovement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lowerclasses.
moraine: An accumulation of earth and stones carried forward anddeposited by a glacier. Lyell.
morainic: Of or pertaining to a moranie.
moral: To moralize. [Obs.] Shak.
morale: The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so faras it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, suchas zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body ofmen, an army, and the like.
moraler: A moralizer. [Obs.] Shak.
moralism: A maxim or saying embodying a moral truth. Farrar.
moralize: To make moral reflections; to regard acts and events asinvolving a moral.
moralizer: One who moralizes.
morass: A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. Morass ore. (Min.)See Bog ore, under Bog.
morassy: Marshy; fenny. [R.] Pennant.
morate: A salt of moric acid.
moration: A delaying tarrying; delay. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
moratorium: A period during which an obligor has a legal right to delaymeeting an obligation, esp. such a period granted, as to a bank, by amoratory law.
moratory: Of or pertaining to delay; esp., designating a law passed, asin a time of financial panic, to postpone or delay for a period thetime at which notes, bills of exchange, and other obligations, shallmature or become due.
moravian: Of or pertaining to Moravia, or to the United Brethren. SeeMoravian, n.
moravianism: The religious system of the Moravians.
moray: A muræna.
morbidezza: Delicacy or softness in the representation of flesh.
morbidly: In a morbid manner.
morbidness: The quality or state of being morbid; morbidity.
morbillous: Pertaining to the measles; partaking of the nature of measels,or resembling the eruptions of that disease; measly.
morbose: Proceeding from disease; morbid; unhealthy.Morbose tumors and excrescences of plants. Ray.
morbosity: A diseased state; unhealthiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
morceau: A bit; a morsel.
mordacious: Biting; given to biting; hence, figuratively, sarcastic;severe; scathing.-- Mor*da"cious*ly, adv.
mordacity: The quality of being mordacious; biting severity, or sarcasticquality. Bacon.
mordant: Serving to fix colors.
mordantly: In the manner of a mordant.
mordente: An embellishment resembling a trill.
mordicancy: A biting quality; corrosiveness. [R.] Evelyn.
mordicant: Biting; acrid; as, the mordicant quality of a body. [R.] Boyle.
mordication: The act of biting or corroding; corrosion. [R.] Bacon.
mordicative: Biting; corrosive. [R.] Holland.
more: A hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
moreen: A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; --used in upholstery, for curtains, etc.
morel: An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta), the upper part of whichis covered with a reticulated and pitted hymenium. It is used asfood, and for flavoring sauces. [Written also moril.]
moreland: Moorland.
morelle: Nightshade. See 2d Morel.
morello: A kind of nearly black cherry with dark red flesh and juice, --used chiefly for preserving.
morendo: Dying; a gradual decrescendo at the end of a strain or cadence.
moreness: Greatness. [Obs.] Wyclif.
moreover: Beyond what has been said; further; besides; in addition;furthermore; also; likewise.Moreover, he hath left you all his walks. Shak.
morepork: The Australian crested goatsucker (Ægotheles Novæ-Hollandiæ).Also applied to other allied birds, as Podargus Cuveiri.
mores: Customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more orless obligatory; customary law.
moresk: Moresque. [Obs.]
moresque: Of or pertaining to, or in the manner or style of, the Moors;Moorish.-- n.
morgan: One of a celebrated breed of American trotting horses; -- socalled from the name of the stud from which the breed originated inVermont.
morganatic: Pertaining to, in the manner of, or designating, a kind ofmarriage, called also left-handed marriage, between a man of superiorrank and a woman of inferior, in which it is stipulated that neitherthe latter nor her children shall enjoy the rank or inherit thepossessions of her husband. Brande & C.-- Mor`ga*nat"ic*al*ly, adv.
morgay: The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Noteunder Houndfish.
morglay: A sword. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
morgue: A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed,that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; adeadhouse.
moria: Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness.
morian: A Moor. [Obs.]In vain the Turks and Morians armed be. Fairfax.
moribund: In a dying state; dying; at the point of death.The patient was comatose and moribund. Copland.
moric: Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin); as, moricacid.
morice: See Morisco.
morigerate: Obedient. [Obs.]
morigeration: Obsequiousness; obedience. [Obs.] Evelyn.
morigerous: Obedient; obsequious. [Obs.] Brathwait.
moril: An edible fungus. Same as 1st Morel.
morin: A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extractedfrom fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria); --called also moric acid.
morinda: A genus of rubiaceous trees and shrubs, mostly East Indian,many species of which yield valuable red and yellow dyes. The wood ishard and beautiful, and used for gunstocks.
morindin: A yellow dyestuff extracted from the root bark of an EastIndian plant (Morinda citrifolia).
morinel: The dotterel.
moringa: A genus of trees of Southern India and Northern Africa. Onespecies (Moringa pterygosperma) is the horse-radish tree, and itsseeds, as well as those of M. aptera, are known in commerce as ben orben nuts, and yield the oil called oil of ben.
moringic: Designating an organic acid obtained from oil of ben. SeeMoringa.
morintannic: Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannic acidextracted from fustic (Maclura, formerly Morus, tinctoria) as ayellow crystalline substance; -- called also maclurin.
morion: A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhatresembling a hat.A battered morion on his brow. Sir W. Scott.
morioplasty: The restoration of lost parts of the body.
morisco: Moresque.
morisk: Same as Morisco.
morkin: A beast that has died of disease or by mischance. [Obs.] Bp.Hall.
morland: Moorland. [Obs.]
morling: Mortling. [Eng.] Ainsworth.
mormal: A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer. [Obs.] [Written also morrimaland mortmal.] Chaucer.
mormo: A bugbear; false terror. [Obs.] Jonhson.
mormon: One of a sect in the United States, followers of Joseph Smith,who professed to have found an addition to the Bible, engraved ongolden plates, called the Book of Mormon, first published in 1830.The Mormons believe in polygamy, and their hierarchy of apostles,etc., has control of civil and religious matters.
mormondom: The country inhabited by the Mormons; the Mormon people.
mormonism: The doctrine, system, and practices of the Mormons.
mormonite: A Mormon.-- a.
morn: The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly inpoetry.From morn To noun he fell, from noon to dewy eve. Milton.
morne: Of or pertaining to the morn; morning. [Obs.] "White as mornemilk." Chaucer.
morning: Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being inthe early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morningservice.She looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew. Shak.Morning gown, a gown worn in the morning before one is dressed forthe day.-- Morning gun, a gun fired at the first stroke of reveille atmilitary posts.-- Morning sickness (Med.), nausea and vomiting, usually occurringin the morning; -- a common sign of pregnancy.-- Morning star. (a) Any one of the planets (Venus, Jupiter, Mars,or Saturn) when it precedes the sun in rising, esp. Venus. Cf.Evening star, Evening. (b) Satan. See Lucifer.Since he miscalled the morning star, Nor man nor fiend hath fallen sofar. Byron.(c) A weapon consisting of a heavy ball set with spikes, eitherattached to a staff or suspended from one by a chain.-- Morning watch (Naut.), the watch between four A. M. and eight A.M..
morning-glory: A climbing plant (Ipomoea purpurea) having handsome, funnel-shaped flowers, usually red, pink, purple, white, or variegated,sometimes pale blue. See Dextrorsal.
morningtide: Morning time. [Poetic]
mornward: Towards the morn. [Poetic]And mornward now the starry hands move on. Lowell.
moro: A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry.Dunglison.
moroccan: Of or pertaining to Morocco, or its inhabitants.
morocco: A fine kind of leather, prepared commonly from goatskin (thoughan inferior kind is made of sheepskin), and tanned with sumac anddyed of various colors; -- said to have been first made by the Moors.
morology: Foolish talk; nonsense; folly. [Obs.]
moron: A person whose intellectual development proceeds normally up toabout the eighth year of age and is then arrested so that there islittle or no further development.
morone: Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry.
moros: The Mohammedan tribes of the southern Philippine Islands, saidto have formerly migrated from Borneo. Some of them are warlike andaddicted to piracy.
morosaurus: An extinct genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs, found inJurassic strata in America.
morosely: Sourly; with sullen austerity.
moroseness: Sourness of temper; sulenness.Learn good humor, never to oppose without just reason; abate somedegrees of pride and moroseness. I. Watts.
morosis: Idiocy; fatuity; stupidity.
morosity: Moroseness. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
morosoph: A philosophical or learned fool. [Obs.]
morosous: Morose. [Obs.] Sheldon.
moroxite: A variety of apatite of a greenish blue color.
moroxylate: A morate.
moroxylic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the mulberry; moric.
morphean: Of or relating to Morpheus, to dreams, or to sleep. Keats.
morpheus: The god of dreams.
morphew: A scurfy eruption. [Obs.] Drayton.
morphia: Morphine.
morphine: A bitter white crystalline alkaloid found in opium, possessingstrong narcotic properties, and much used as an anodyne; -- calledalso morphia, and morphina.
morphinism: A morbid condition produced by the excessive or prolonged useof morphine.
morpho: Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropicalAmerican butterflies, of the genus Morpho. They are noted for thevery brilliant metallic luster and bright colors (often blue) of theupper surface of the wings. The lower surface is usually brown orgray, with eyelike spots.
morphogeny: History of the evolution of forms; that part of ontogeny thatdeals with the germ history of forms; -- distinguished fromphysiogeny. Haeckel.
morphologist: One who is versed in the science of morphology.
morphology: That branch of biology which deals with the structure ofanimals and plants, treating of the forms of organs and describingtheir varieties, homologies, and metamorphoses. See Tectology, andPromorphology.
morphon: A morphological individual, characterized by definiteness ofform bion, a physiological individual. See Tectology. Haeckel.
morphonomy: The laws of organic formation.
morphophyly: The tribal history of forms; that part of phylogeny whichtreats of the tribal history of forms, in distinction from the tribalhistory of functions. Haeckel.
morphosis: The order or mode of development of an organ or part.
morphotic: Connected with, or becoming an integral part of, a living unitor of the morphological framework; as, morphotic, or tissue,proteids. Foster.
morpion: A louse. Hudibras.
morrice: Same as 1st Morris.
morricer: A morris dancer. [Obs.]
morrimal: See Mormal.
morris: A marine fish having a very slender, flat, transparent body. Itis now generally believed to be the young of the conger eel or someallied fish.
morris-chair: A kind of easy-chair with a back which may be lowered orraised.
morris-pike: A Moorish pike. [Obs.]
morro: A round hill or point of land; hence, Morro castle, a castle ona hill.
morrot: See Marrot.
morse: The walrus. See Walrus.
morse alphabet: A telegraphic alphabet in very general use, inventing by SamuelF.B.Morse, the inventor of Morse's telegraph. The letters arerepresented by dots and dashes impressed or printed on paper, as, .-(A), -... (B), -.. (D), . (E), .. (O), ... (R), -- (T), etc., or bysounds, flashes of light, etc., with greater or less intervalsbetween them.
morse code: The telegraphic code, consisting of dots, dashes, and spaces,invented by Samuel B. Morse. The Alphabetic code which is in use inNorth America is given below. In length, or duration, one dash istheoretically equal to three dots; the space between the elements ofa letter is equal to one dot; the interval in spaced letters, as O .., is equal to three dots. There are no spaces in any letter composedwholly or in part of dashes.
morsing horn: A horn or flask for holding powder, as for priming. [Scot.] SirW. Scott.
morsitation: The act of biting or gnawing. [Obs.]
morsure: The act of biting. Swift.
mort: A great quantity or number. [Prov. Eng.]There was a mort of merrymaking. Dickens.
mortal: A being subject to death; a human being; man. "Warn poormortals left behind." Tickell.
mortalize: To make mortal. [R.]
mortalness: Quality of being mortal; mortality.
mortar: A short piece of ordnance, used for throwing bombs, carcasses,shells, etc., at high angles of elevation, as 45º, and even higher; -- so named from its resemblance in shape to the utensil abovedescribed. Mortar bed (Mil.), a framework of wood and iron, suitablyhollowed out to receive the breech and trunnions of a mortar.-- Mortar boat or vessel (Naut.), a boat strongly built and adaptedto carrying a mortar or mortars for bombarding; a bomb ketch.-- Mortar piece, a mortar. [Obs.] Shak.
mortgage: A conveyance of property, upon condition, as security for thepayment of a debt or the preformance of a duty, and to become voidupon payment or performance according to the stipulated terms; also,the written instrument by which the conveyance is made.
mortgagee: The person to whom property is mortgaged, or to whom a mortgageis made or given.
mortgager: gives a mortgage.
mortiferous: Bringing or producing death; deadly; destructive; as, amortiferous herb. Gov. of Tongue.
mortification: A gift to some charitable or religious institution; -- nearlysynonymous with mortmain.
mortified: of Mortify.
mortifiedness: The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of thepassions. [R.]
mortifier: One who, or that which, mortifies.
mortifyingly: In a mortifying manner.
mortise: A cavity cut into a piece of timber, or other material, toreceive something (as the end of another piece) made to fit it, andcalled a tenon. Mortise and tenon (Carp.), made with a mortise andtenon; joined or united by means of a mortise and tenon; -- usedadjectively.-- Mortise joint, a joint made by a mortise and tenon.-- Mortise lock. See under Lock.-- Mortise wheel, a cast-iron wheel, with wooden clogs inserted inmortises on its face or edge; -- also called mortise gear, and coregear.
mortmain: Possession of lands or tenements in, or conveyance to, deadhands, or hands that cannot alienate.
mortmal: See Mormal. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
mortpay: Dead pay; the crime of taking pay for the service of deadsoldiers, or for services not actually rendered by soldiers. [Obs.]Bacon.
mortuary: Of or pertaining to the dead; as, mortuary monuments. Mortuaryurn, an urn for holding the ashes of the dead.
morula: The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres), formed bythe clevage of the ovum or egg in the first stages of itsdevelopment; -- called also mulberry mass, segmentation sphere, andblastosphere. See Segmentation.
morulation: The process of cleavage, or segmentation, of the ovum, by whicha morula is formed.
morus: A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit;the mulberry. See Mulberry.
morwe: See Morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
morwening: Morning. [Obs.]
mos: sing. of Mores.
mosaic: A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small piecesof variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called alsomosaic work.
mosaical: Mosaic (in either sense). "A mosaical floor." Sir P. Sidney.
mosaically: In the manner of a mosaic.
mosaism: Attachment to the system or doctrines of Moses; that which ispeculiar to the Mosaic system or doctrines.
mosasauria: An order of large, extinct, marine reptiles, found in theCretaceous rocks, especially in America. They were serpentlike inform and in having loosely articulated and dilatable jaws, with largerecurved tteth, but they had paddlelike feet. Some of them were overfifty feet long. They are, essentially, fossil sea serpents withpaddles. Called also Pythonomarpha, and Mosasauria.
mosasaurus: A genus of extinct marine reptiles allied to the lizards, buthaving the body much elongated, and the limbs in the form of paddles.The first known species, nearly fifty feet in length, was discoveredin Cretaceous beds near Maestricht, in the Netherlands. [Written alsoMososaurus.]
moschatel: A plant of the genus Adoxa (A. moschatellina), the flowers ofwhich are pale green, and have a faint musky smell. It is found inwoods in all parts of Europe, and is called also hollow root and muskcrowfoot. Loudon.
moschine: Of or pertaining to Moschus, a genus including the musk deer.
mosel: See Muzzle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
moselle: A light wine, usually white, produced in the vicinity of theriver Moselle.
moses: A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freightfrom shore to ship.
mosey: To go, or move (in a certain manner); -- usually with out, off,along, etc. [Colloq.]  E. N. Wescott.
mosk: See Mosque.
moslem: A Mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan. [Written also muslim.]"Heaps of slaughtered Moslem." Macaulay.They piled the ground with Moslem slain. Halleck.
moslings: Thin shreds of leather shaved off in dressing skins. Simmonds.
mososaurus: Same as Mosasaurus.
mosque: A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship. [Writtenalso mosk.]
mosquito: Any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex andallied genera. The females have a proboscis containing, within thesheathlike labium, six fine, sharp, needlelike organs with which theypuncture the skin of man and animals to suck the blood. These bites,when numerous, cause, in many persons, considerable irritation andswelling, with some pain. The larvæ and pupæ, called wigglers, areaquatic. [Written also musquito.] Mosquito bar, Mosquito net, a netor curtain for excluding mosquitoes, -- used for beds and windows.-- Mosquito fleet, a fleet of small vessels.-- Mosquito hawk (Zoöl.), a dragon fly; -- so called because itcaptures and feeds upon mosquitoes.-- Mosquito netting, a loosely-woven gauzelike fabric for makingmosquito bars.
moss: A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinctstem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually openingby an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are manyspecies, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks,and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water.
moss-grown: Overgrown with moss.
mossback: A veteran partisan; one who is so conservative in opinion thathe may be likened to a stone or old tree covered with moss.[Political Slang, U.S.]
mossiness: The state of being mossy.
mosstrooper: One of a class of marauders or bandits that formerly infestedthe border country between England and Scotland; -- so called inallusion to the mossy or boggy character of much of the bordercountry.
most: In the greatest or highest degree.Those nearest to this king, and most his favorites, were courtiersand prelates. Milton.
mostahiba: See Mustaiba.
moste: of Mote. Chaucer.
mostly: For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main.
mostra: See Direct, n.
mostwhat: For the most part. [Obs.] "All the rest do mostwhat far amiss."Spenser.
mot: May; must; might.He moot as well say one word as another Chaucer.The wordes mote be cousin to the deed. Chaucer.Men moot [i.e., one only] give silver to the poore freres. Chaucer.So mote it be, so be it; amen; -- a phrase in some rituals, as thatof the Freemasons.
motacil: Any singing bird of the genus Motacilla; a wagtail.
motation: The act of moving; motion. [Obs.]
mote: See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
moted: Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air. "Motedsunbeams." Tennyson.
motet: A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaboratepolyphonic church style; an anthem.
moth: A mote. [Obs.] Shak.
moth-eat: To eat or prey upon, as a moth eats a garment. [Rarely usedexcept in the form moth-eaten, p.p. or a.]Ruin and neglect have so moth-eaten her. Sir T. Herbert.
mothen: Full of moths. [Obs.] Fulke.
mother: Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as,mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of amother; producing others; originating.It is the mother falsehood from which all idolatry is derived. T.Arnold.Mother cell (Biol.), a cell which, by endogenous divisions, givesrise to other cells (daughter cells); a parent cell.-- Mother church, the original church; a church from which otherchurches have sprung; as, the mother church of a diocese.-- Mother country, the country of one's parents or ancestors; thecountry from which the people of a colony derive their origin.-- Mother liquor (Chem.), the impure or complex residual solutionwhich remains after the salts readily or regularly crystallizing havebeen removed.-- Mother queen, the mother of a reigning sovereign; a queen mother.-- Mother tongue. (a) A language from which another language has hadits origin. (b) The language of one's native land; native tongue.-- Mother water. See Mother liquor (above).-- Mother wit, natural or native wit or intelligence.
mother-in-law: The mother of one's husband or wife.
mother-naked: Naked as when born.
mother-of-pearl: The hard pearly internal layer of several kinds of shells, esp.of pearl oysters, river mussels, and the abalone shells; nacre. SeePearl.
mother-of-thyme: An aromatic plant (Thymus Serphyllum); -- called also wildthyme.
mothered: Thick, like mother; viscid.They oint their naked limbs with mothered oil. Dryden.
motherhood: The state of being a mother; the character or office of amother.
mothering: A rural custom in England, of visiting one's parents on MidlentSunday, -- supposed to have been originally visiting the motherchurch to make offerings at the high altar.
motherland: The country of one's ancestors; -- same as fatherland.
motherless: Destitute of a mother; having lost a mother; as, motherlesschildren.
motherliness: The state or quality of being motherly.
motherly: Of or pertaining to a mother; like, or suitable for, a mother;tender; maternal; as, motherly authority, love, or care. Hooker.
mothery: Consisting of, containing, or resembling, mother (in vinegar).
mothy: Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak.
motif: Motive.
motific: Producing motion. [R.]
motile: Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, themotile spores of certain seaweeds.
motility: Capability of motion; contractility.
motion: An application made to a court or judge orally in open court.Its object is to obtain an order or rule directing some act to bedone in favor of the applicant. Mozley & W.
motion picture: A moving picture.
motioner: One who makes a motion; a mover. Udall.
motionist: A mover. [Obs.]
motionless: Without motion; being at rest.
motivate: To provide with a motive; to move; impel; induce; incite. --Mo`ti*va"tion (#), n.  William James.
motive: The theme or subject; a leading phrase or passage which isreproduced and varied through the course of a comor a movement; ashort figure, or melodic germ, out of which a whole movement isdevelpoed. See also Leading motive, under Leading. [Written alsomotivo.]
motiveless: Destitute of a motive; not incited by a motive.-- Mo"tive*less*ness, n. G. Eliot.
motivo: See Motive, n., 3, 4.
motley-minded: Having a mind of a jester; foolish. Shak.
motmot: Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds ofthe genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of thespecies the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at thetip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trimthem into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, andare found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note.[Written also momot.]
moto: Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement withincreased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto,directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, alittle more rapidly than andante, etc.
motograph: A device utilized in the making of a loud-speaking telephone,depending on the fact that the friction between a metallic point anda moving cylinder of moistened chalk, or a moving slip of paper, onwhich it rests is diminished by the passage of a current between thepoint and the moving surface. -- Mo`to*graph"ic (#), a.
moton: A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th centuryand later.
motor: A prime mover; a machine by means of which a source of power,as steam, moving water, electricity, etc., is made available fordoing mechanical work.
motor generator: The combination consisting of a generator and a driving motormechanically connected, usually on a common bedplate and with the twoshafts directly coupled or combined into a single shaft.
motor-driven: Driven or actuated by a motor, esp. by an individual electricmotor. An electric motor forms an integral part of many machine toolsin numerous modern machine shops.
motoring: Act or recreation of riding in or driving a motor car orautomobile.
motorize: To substitute motor-driven vehicles, or automobiles, for thehorses and horse-drawn vehicles of (a fire department, city, etc.). --Mo`tor*i*za"tion (#), n.
motorman: A man who controls a motor.
motorpathic: Of or pertaining to motorpathy.
motorpathy: Kinesiatrics.
motte: A clump of trees in a prairie. [Local, U.S.]
mottle: To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, asif stained; to spot; to maculate.
mottled: Marked with spots of different colors; variegated; spotted; as,mottled wood. "The mottled meadows." Drayton.
motto: A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldicachievment.
mottoed: Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device.
motty: Full of, or consisting of, motes. [Written also mottie.][Scot.]The motty dust reek raised by the workmen. H. Miller.
mouchoir: A handkerchief.
mouezzin: See Muezzin.
mouflon: A wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains ofSardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangularbase and rounded angles. It is supposed by some to be the original ofthe domestic sheep. Called also musimon or musmon. [Written alsomoufflon.]
mought: of May. Might.
mouillation: The act of uttering the sound of a mouillé letter.
mouille: Applied to certain consonants having a "liquid" or softenedsound; e.g., in French, l or ll and gn (like the lli in million andni in minion); in Italian, gl and gn; in Spanish, ll and ñ; inPortuguese, lh and nh.
moule: To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold. [Obs.]Let us not moulen thus in idleness. Chaucer.
moult: See Molt.
moulten: Having molted. [Obs.] "A moulten raven." Shak.
moun: pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif.
mounch: To munch. [Obs.]
mound: A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor orother sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with preciousstones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe.
mount: A bank; a fund. Mount of piety. See Mont de piété.
mountable: Such as can be mounted.
mountain: A range, chain, or group of such elevations; as, the WhiteMountains.
mountain specter: An optical phenomenon sometimes seen on the summit of mountains(as on the Brocken) when the observer is between the sun and a massof cloud. The figures of the observer and surrounding objects areseen projected on the cloud, greatly enlarged and often encircled byrainbow colors.
mountain state: Montana; -- a nickname.
mountaineer: To lie or act as a mountaineer; to climb mountains.You can't go mountaineering in a flat country. H. James.
mountainer: A mountaineer. [Obs.]
mountainet: A small mountain. [R.]
mountainousness: The state or quality of being mountainous.
mountance: Amount; sum; quantity; extent. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mountant: Raised; high. [Obs.]
mountebank: To cheat by boasting and false pretenses; to gull. [R.] Shak.
mountebankery: The practices of a mountebank; quackery; boastful and vainpretenses.
mountebankish: Like a mountebank or his quackery. Howell.
mountebankism: The practices of a mountebank; mountebankery.
mountenaunce: Mountance. [Obs.]
mountingly: In an ascending manner.
mountlet: A small or low mountain. [R.]
mounty: The rise of a hawk after prey. Sir P. Sidney.
mourne: The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end ofthe staff to which the hook is attached. Sir P. Sidney.
mournful: Full of sorrow; expressing, or intended to express, sorrow;mourning; grieving; sad; also, causing sorrow; saddening; grievous;as, a mournful person; mournful looks, tones, loss.-- Mourn"ful*ly, adv.-- Mourn"ful*ness, n.
mourningly: In a mourning manner.
mournival: See Murnival.
mouse: Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to thegenus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridæ. The commonhouse mouse (Mus musculus) is found in nearly all countries. TheAmerican white-footed, or deer, mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) sometimeslives in houses. See Dormouse, Meadow mouse, under Meadow, andHarvest mouse, under Harvest.
mousefish: See Frogfish.
mousehole: A hole made by a mouse, for passage or abode, as in a wall;hence, a very small hole like that gnawed by a mouse.
mousekin: A little mouse. Thackeray.
mousetail: A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Myosurus), in which theprolonged receptacle is covered with imbricating achenes, and soresembles the tail of a mouse.
mousie: Diminutive for Mouse. Burns.
mousing: Impertinently inquisitive; prying; meddlesome. "Mousingsaints." L'Estrange.
mousle: To sport with roughly; to rumple. [Written also mouzle.] [Obs.]Wycherley.
mousquetaire cuff: A deep flaring cuff.
mousquetaire glove: A woman's glove with a long, loosely fitting wrist.
mousse: A frozen dessert of a frothy texture, made of sweetened andflavored whipped cream, sometimes with the addition of egg yolks andgelatin. Mousse differs from ice cream in being beaten before -- notduring -- the freezing process.
mousseline: Muslin. Mousseline de laine (. Etym
mousseline de soie: A soft thin silk fabric with a weave like that of muslin.
moustache: Mustache.
mousy: Infested with mice; smelling of mice.
moutan: The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with largeflowers of various colors.
mouth: An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture; as:(a) The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, chargedor discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of thelacteal vessels, etc.(b) The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, orden.(c) The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it isdischarged.(d) The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream aredischarged.(e) The entrance into a harbor.
mouth-footed: Having the basal joints of the legs converted into jaws.
mouth-made: Spoken without sincerity; not heartfelt. "Mouth-made vows."Shak.
mouther: One who mouths; an affected speaker.
mouthless: Destitute of a mouth.
movability: Movableness.
movable: Property not attached to the soil.
movableness: The quality or state of being movable; mobility; susceptibilityof motion.
movably: In a movable manner or condition.
move: To transfer (a piece or man) from one space or position toanother, according to the rules of the game; as, to move a king.
moveless: Motionless; fixed. "Moveless as a tower." Pope.
movement: A system of mechanism for transmitting motion of a definitecharacter, or for transforming motion; as, the wheelwork of a watch.Febrille movement (Med.), an elevation of the body temperature; afever.-- Movement cure. (Med.) See Kinesiatrics.-- Movement of the bowels, an evacuation or stool; a passage ordischarge.
movent: Moving. [R.] Grew.
movie: A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used inpl. [Slang or Colloq.]
moving: The act of changing place or posture; esp., the act of changingone's dwelling place or place of business. Moving day, a day when onemoves; esp., a day when a large number of tenants change theirdwelling place.
moving picture: A series of pictures, usually photographs taken with a specialmachine, presented to the eye in very rapid succession, with some orall of the objects in the picture represented in slightly changedpositions, producing, by persistence of vision, the optical effect ofa continuous picture in which the objects move in some manner, asthat of some original scene. The usual form of moving pictures isthat produced by the cinematograph.
movingly: In a moving manner. Addison.
movingness: The power of moving.
mow: A wry face. "Make mows at him." Shak.
mowburn: To heat and ferment in the mow, as hay when housed too green.
mowe: See 4th Mow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
mower: One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawnmower.
mown: Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as,a mown field.
mowyer: A mower. [Obs.]
moxa: A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of ArtemisiaChinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence,any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated withniter, amadou.
moya: Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called inSouth America.
moyle: See Moil, and Moile.
mucamide: The acid amide of mucic acid, obtained as a white crystallinesubstance.
mucate: A salt of mucic acid.
muce: See Muse, and Muset.
mucedin: A yellowish white, amorphous, nitrogenous substance found inwheat, rye, etc., and resembling gluten; -- formerly called alsomucin.
much: To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly."Much suffering heroes." Pope.Thou art much mightier than we. Gen. xxvi. 16.Excellent speech becometh not a fool, much less do lying lips aprince. Prov. xvii. 7.Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong Life much. Milton.All left the world much as they found it. Sir W. Temple.
muchel: Much. [Obs.]
muchness: Greatness; extent. [Obs. or Colloq.]The quantity and muchness of time which it filcheth. W. Whately.Much of a muchness, much the same. [Colloq.] "Men's men; gentle orsimple, they 're much of muchness." G. Eliot.
muchwhat: Nearly; almost; much. [Obs.] "Muchwhat after the same manner."Glanvill.
mucic: Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginoussubstances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation ofgums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric withsaccharic acid.
mucid: Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous.-- Mu"cid*ness, n.
mucific: Inducing or stimulating the secretion of mucus; blennogenous.
muciform: Resembling mucus; having the character or appearance of mucus.
mucigen: A substance which is formed in mucous epithelial cells, andgives rise to mucin.
mucigenous: Connected with the formation of mucin; resembling mucin.The mucigenous basis is manufactured at the expense of the ordinaryprotoplasm of the cell. Foster.
mucilage: A gummy or gelatinous substance produced in certain plants bythe action of water on the cell wall, as in the seeds of quinces, offlax, etc.
mucin: See Mucedin. [Obs.]
mucinogen: Same as Mucigen.
muciparous: Secreting, or producing, mucus or mucin.
mucivore: An unsect which feeds on mucus, or the sap of plants, ascertain Diptera, of the tribe Mucivora.
muck: , abbreviation of Amuck. To run a muck. See Amuck.
muck rake: A rake for scraping up muck or dung. See Muckrake, v. i.,below.
muckender: A handkerchief. [Obs.] [Written also muckinder, muckiter,mockadour.]
mucker: A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person. [Slang]
muckerer: A miser; a niggard. [Obs.]
muckiness: The quality of being mucky.
muckle: Much. [Obs.]
muckmidden: A dunghill. [Scot.]
mucksy: Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy. [Prov. Eng.] R.D. Blackmore.
muckworm: A larva or grub that lives in muck or manure; -- applied to thelarvæ of the tumbledung and allied beetles.
mucocele: An enlargement or protrusion of the mucous membrane of thelachrymal passages, or dropsy of the lachrymal sac, dependent uponcatarrhal inflammation of the latter. Dunglison.
mucoid: Resembling mucus. Dunglison. Mucoid degeneration, a form ofdegeneration in which the tissues are transformed into a semisolidsubstance resembling mucus. Quain.
muconate: A salt of muconic acid.
muconic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid, obtainedindirectly from mucic acid, and somewhat resembling itaconic acid.
mucopurulent: Having the character or appearance of both mucus and pus.Dunglison.
mucor: A genus of minute fungi. The plants consist of slender threadswith terminal globular sporangia; mold.
mucosity: The quality or state of being mucous or slimy; mucousness.
mucousness: The quality or state of being mucous; sliminess.
mucro: A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point orprocess, terminating a larger part or organ.
mucronulate: Having, or tipped with, a small point or points.
muculent: Slimy; moist, and moderately viscous.
mucus: A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves tomoisten and protect. It covers the lining membranes of all thecavities which open externally, such as those of the mouth, nose,lungs, intestinal canal, urinary passages, etc.
mucusin: Mucin. [R.]
mud: Earth and water mixed so as to be soft and adhesive. Mud bass(Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish (Acantharchum pomotis) of the EasternUnited States. It produces a deep grunting note.-- Mud bath, an immersion of the body, or some part of it, in mudcharged with medicinal agents, as a remedy for disease.-- Mud boat, a large flatboat used in deredging.-- Mud cat. See Catfish.-- Mud crab (Zoöl.), any one of several American marine crabs of thegenus Panopeus.-- Mud dab (Zoöl.), the winter flounder. See Flounder, and Dab.-- Mud dauber (Zoöl.), a mud wasp.-- Mud devil (Zoöl.), the fellbender.-- Mud drum (Steam Boilers), a drum beneath a boiler, into whichsediment and mud in the water can settle for removal.-- Mud eel (Zoöl.), a long, slender, aquatic amphibian (Sirenlacertina), found in the Southern United States. It has persistentexternal gills and only the anterior pair of legs. See Siren.-- Mud frog (Zoöl.), a European frog (Pelobates fuscus).-- Mud hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The American coot (Fulica Americana). (b)The clapper rail.-- Mud lark, a person who cleans sewers, or delves in mud. [Slang] -- Mud minnow (Zoöl.), any small American fresh-water fish of thegenus Umbra, as U. limi. The genus is allied to the pickerels.-- Mud plug, a plug for stopping the mudhole of a boiler.-- Mud puppy (Zoöl.), the menobranchus.-- Mud scow, a heavy scow, used in dredging; a mud boat. [U.S.] --Mud turtle, Mud tortoise (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species offresh-water tortoises of the United States.-- Mud wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterousinsects belonging to Pepæus, and allied genera, which constructgroups of mud cells, attached, side by side, to stones or to thewoodwork of buildings, etc. The female places an egg in each cell,together with spiders or other insects, paralyzed by a sting, toserve as food for the larva. Called also mud dauber.
mudar: Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea,and C. procera), which furnish a strong and valuable fiber. The acridmilky juice is used medicinally.
mudarin: A brown, amorphous, bitter substance having a strong emeticaction, extracted from the root of the mudar.
muddily: , In a muddy manner; turbidly; without mixture; cloudily;obscurely; confusedly.
muddle: A state of being turbid or confused; hence, intellectualcloudiness or dullness.We both grub on in a muddle. Dickens.
muddlehead: A stupid person. [Colloq.] C. Reade.-- Mud"dle-head`ed, a. [Colloq.] Dickens.
muddler: One who, or that which, muddles.
muddy-headed: Dull; stupid.
muddy-mettled: Dull-spirited. Shak.
mudhole: A hole near the bottom, through which the sediment iswithdrawn.
mudir: Same as Moodir.
mudsill: The lowest sill of a structure, usually embedded in the soil;the lowest timber of a house; also, that sill or timber of a bridgewhich is laid at the bottom of the water. See Sill.
mudsucker: A woodcock.
mudwall: The European bee-eater. See Bee-eater. [Written also modwall.]
mudwort: A small herbaceous plant growing on muddy shores (Limosellaaquatica).
mue: To mew; to molt. [Obs.] Quarles.
muezzin: A Mohammedan crier of the hour of prayer. [Written alsomouezzin, mueddin, and muwazzin.]
muff: A short hollow cylinder surrounding an object, as a pipe.
muffetee: A small muff worn over the wrist. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
muffin: A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea.
muffineer: A dish for keeping muffins hot.
muffish: Stupid; awkward. [Colloq.]
muffle: The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. ofruminants.
muffler: A cushion for terminating or softening a note made by astringed instrument with a keyboard.
muflon: See Mouflon.
mufti: An official expounder of Mohammedan law.
muggard: Sullen; displeased. [Obs.]
mugget: The small entrails of a calf or a hog.
mugginess: The condition or quality of being muggy.
muggins: In certain games, to score against, or take an advantage over(an opponent), as for an error, announcing the act by saying"muggins."
muggish: See Muggy.
muggletonian: One of an extinct sect, named after Ludovic Muggleton, anEnglish journeyman tailor, who (about 1657) claimed to be inspired.Eadie.
mughouse: An alehouse; a pothouse. Tickel.
mugiency: A bellowing. [Obs.]
mugient: Lowing; bellowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
mugil: A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet.
mugiloid: Like or pertaining to the genus Mugil, or family Mugilidæ.
mugweed: A slender European weed (Galium Cruciata); -- called alsocrossweed.
mugwort: A somewhat aromatic composite weed (Artemisia vulgaris), at onetime used medicinally; -- called also motherwort.
mugwump: A bolter from the Republican party in the national election of1884; an Independent. [Political Cant, U.S.]
muhammadanism: Mohammedanism.
mulada: A moor. [Scot.] Lockhart.
mulatto: The offspring of a negress by a white man, or of a white womanby a negro, -- usually of a brownish yellow complexion.
mulattress: A female mulatto. G. W. Gable.
mulberry: The berry or fruit of any tree of the genus Morus; also, thetree itself. See Morus.
mulberry-faced: Having a face of a mulberry color, or blotched as if withmulberry stains.
mulch: Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground,as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., andto preserve moisture.
mulct: Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, afine.Fines, or some known mulctuary punishments. Sir W. Temple.
mule: A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass anda mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny.
mule killer: Any of several arthropods erroneously supposed to kill livestock, in the southern United States, by stinging or by beingswallowed; as:(a) A whip scorpion. [Florida](b) A walking-stick insect. [Texas](c) A mantis.(d) A wheel bug.
mule-jenny: See Mule, 4.
muleteer: One who drives mules.
mulewort: A fern of the genus Hemionitis.
muley: A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in agate. Muley axle (Railroad), a car axle without collars at the outerends of the journals. Forney.
mulierly: In the manner or condition of a mulier; in wedlock;legitimately. [Obs.]
mulierose: Fond of woman. [R.] Charles Reade.
mulierosity: A fondness for women. [R.] Dr. H. More.
mulierty: Condition of being a mulier; position of one born in lawfulwedlock.
mulish: Like a mule; sullen; stubborn.-- Mul"ish*ly, adv.-- Mul"ish*ness, n.
mull: A thin, soft kind of muslin.
mulla: Same as Mollah.
mullagatawny: An East Indian curry soup.
mullah: See Mollah.
mullar: A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, asupon metal.
mullein: Any plant of the genus Verbascum. They are tall herbs havingcoarse leaves, and large flowers in dense spikes. The common species,with densely woolly leaves, is Verbascum Thapsus. Moth mullein. Seeunder Moth.-- Mullein foxglove, an American herb (Seymeria macrophylla) withcoarse leaves and yellow tubular flowers with a spreading border.-- Petty mullein, the cowslip. Dr. Prior.
mullen: See Mullein.
muller: A stone or thick lump of glass, or kind of pestle, flat at thebottom, used for grinding pigments or drugs, etc., upon a slab ofsimilar material.
mullet: Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called alsogray mullets. They are found on the coasts of both continents, andare highly esteemed as food. Among the most valuable species areMugil capito of Europe, and M. cephalus which occurs both on theEuropean and American coasts.
mulligatawny: See Mullagatawny.
mullingong: See Duck mole, under Duck. [Written also mollingong.]
mullion: To furnish with mullions; to divide by mullions.
mullock: Rubbish; refuse; dirt. [Obs.]All this mullok [was] in a sieve ythrowe. Chaucer.
mulloid: Like or pertaining to the genus Mullus, which includes thesurmullet, or red mullet.
mulmul: A fine, soft muslin; mull.
mulse: Wine boiled and mingled with honey.
mult-: See Multi-.
multangular: Having many angles.-- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ly, adv.-- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ness, n.
multanimous: Many-minded; many-sided.The multanimous nature of the poet. J. R. Lowell.
multarticulate: Having many articulations or joints.
multeity: Multiplicity. [R.] Coleridge.
multiaxial: Having more than one axis; developing in more than a singleline or plain; -- opposed to Ant
multicapsular: Having many, or several, capsules.
multicarinate: Many-keeled.
multicavous: Having many cavities.
multicellular: Consisting of, or having, many cells or more than one cell.
multicentral: Having many, or several, centers; as, a multicentral cell.Multicental development (Biol.), growth, or development, from severalcenters. According as the insubordination to a single center is moreor less pronounced, the resultant organism will be more or lessirregular in form and may even discontinuous.
multicipital: Having many heads or many stems from one crown or root. Gray.
multicolor: Having many, or several, colors.
multicostate: Having numerous ribs, or costæ, as the leaf of a plant, or ascertain shells and corals.
multicuspid: Multicuspidate; -- said of teeth.
multicuspidate: Having many cusps or points.
multidentate: Having many teeth, or toothlike processes.
multidigitate: Having many fingers, or fingerlike processes.
multifaced: Having many faces.
multifarious: Having parts, as leaves, arranged in many vertical rows.
multifariously: With great multiplicity and diversity; with variety of modesand relations.
multifariousness: The fault of improperly uniting in one bill distinct andindependent matters, and thereby confounding them. Burrill.
multiferous: Bearing or producing much or many. [R.]
multifid: Having many segments; cleft into several parts by linearsinuses; as, a multifid leaf or corolla.
multiflorous: Having many flowers.
multiflue: Having many flues; as, a multiflue boiler. See Boiler.
multifoil: An ornamental foliation consisting of more than five divisionsor foils. [R.] See Foil.
multifold: Many times doubled; manifold; numerous.
multiform: Having many forms, shapes, or appearances.A plastic and multiform unit. Hare.
multiformity: The quality of being multiform; diversity of forms; variety ofappearances in the same thing. Purchas.
multiformous: Multiform. [Obs.]
multigenerous: Having many kinds.
multigranulate: Having, or consisting of, many grains.
multigraph: A combined rotary type-setting and printing machine for officeuse. The type is transferred semi-automatically by means of keys froma type-supply drum to a printing drum. The printing may be done bymeans of an inked ribbon to print "typewritten" letters, or directlyfrom inked type or a stereotype plate, as in a printing press.
multijugate: Having many pairs of leaflets.
multijugous: Same as Multijugate.
multilateral: Having many sides; many-sided.
multilineal: Having many lines. Steevens.
multilobar: Consisting of, or having, many lobes.
multilocular: Having many or several cells or compartments; as, amultilocular shell or capsule.
multiloquence: Quality of being multiloquent; use of many words;talkativeness.
multiloquy: Excess of words or talk. [R.]
multinodate: Having many knots or nodes.
multinodous: Same as Multinodate.
multinomial: Same as Polynomial.
multinuclear: Containing many nuclei; as, multinuclear cells.
multiparous: Producing many, or more than one, at a birth.
multipartite: Divided into many parts; having several parts.
multiped: An insect having many feet, as a myriapod.
multiphase: Having many phases; specif. (Elec.),
multiplane: Having several or many planes or plane surfaces; as, amultiplane kite.
multiple: Containing more than once, or more than one; consisting of morethan one; manifold; repeated many times; having several, or many,parts. Law of multiple proportion (Chem.), the generalization thatwhen the same elements unite in more than one proportion, forming twoor more different compounds, the higher proportions of the elementsin such compounds are simple multiplies of the lowest proportion, orthe proportions are connected by some simple common factor; thus,iron and oxygen unite in the proportions FeO, Fe2O3, Fe3O4, in whichcompounds, considering the oxygen, 3 and 4 are simple multiplies of1. Called also the Law of Dalton, from its discoverer.-- Multiple algebra, a branch of advanced mathematics that treats ofoperations upon units compounded of two or more unlike units.-- Multiple conjugation (Biol.), a coalescence of many cells (aswhere an indefinite number of amoeboid cells flow together into asingle mass) from which conjugation proper and even fertilization mayhave been evolved.-- Multiple fruits. (Bot.) See Collective fruit, under Collective.-- Multiple star (Astron.), several stars in close proximity, whichappear to form a single system.
multiplex: Manifold; multiple.
multipliable: Capable of being multiplied.-- Mul"ti*pli`a*ble*ness, n.
multiplicable: Capable of being multiplied; multipliable.
multiplicand: The number which is to be multiplied by another number calledthe multiplier. See Note under Multiplication.
multiplicate: Consisting of many, or of more than one; multiple; multifold.Multiplicate flower (Bot.), a flower that is double, or has anunusual number of petals in consequence of the abnormalmultiplication of the parts of the floral whorls.
multiplication: The process of repeating, or adding to itself, any given numberor quantity a certain number of times; commonly, the process ofascertaining by a briefer computation the result of such repeatedadditions; also, the rule by which the operation is performed; -- thereverse of division.
multiplicative: Tending to multiply; having the power to multiply, or inceasenumbers.
multiplicatively: So as to multiply.
multiplicator: The number by which another number is multiplied; a multiplier.
multiplicious: Manifold. [Obs.]
multiplicity: The quality of being multiple, manifold, or various; a state ofbeing many; a multitude; as, a multiplicity of thoughts or objects."A multiplicity of goods." South.
multiplier: The number by which another number is multiplied. See the Noteunder Multiplication.
multiply: To add (any given number or quantity) to itself a certainnumber of times; to find the product of by multiplication; thus 7multiplied by 8 produces the number 56; to multiply two numbers. Seethe Note under Multiplication.
multipolar: Having many poles; -- applied especially to those ganglionicnerve cells which have several radiating processes.
multipotent: Having manifold power, or power to do many things. "Jovemultipotent." Shak.
multipresence: The state or power of being multipresent.The multipresence of Christ's body. Bp. Hall.
multipresent: Being, or having the power to be, present in two or more placesat once.
multiradiate: Having many rays.
multiramified: Divided into many branches.
multiramose: Having many branches.
multiscious: Having much or varied knowledge. [Obs.]
multisect: Divided into many similar segments; -- said of an insect ormyriapod.
multiseptate: Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of thepokeweed.
multiserial: Arranged in many rows, or series, as the scales of a pine cone,or the leaves of the houseleek.
multisiliquous: Having many pods or seed vessels.
multisonous: Having many sounds, or sounding much.
multispiral: Having numerous spiral coils round a center or nucleus; -- saidof the opercula of certain shells.
multistriate: Having many streaks.
multisulcate: Having many furrows.
multisyllable: A word of many syllables; a polysyllable. [R.] --Mul`ti*syl*lab"ic, a.
multititular: Having many titles.
multitubular: Having many tubes; as, a multitubular boiler.
multitudinary: Multitudinous.
multitudinous: Wandering much. [Obs.]
multivalence: Quality, state, or degree, of a multivalent element, atom, orradical.
multivalve: Any mollusk which has a shell composed of more than two pieces.
multiversant: Turning into many shapes; assuming many forms; protean.
multivious: Having many ways or roads; by many ways. [Obs.]
multivocal: Signifying many different things; of manifold meaning;equivocal. "An ambiguous multivocal word." Coleridge.-- n.
multocular: Having many eyes, or more than two.
multum: An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers inorder to economize malt and hops. Craig. Hard multum, a preparationmade from Cocculus Indicus, etc., used to impart an intoxicatingquality to beer.
multungulate: Having many hoofs.
multure: The toll for grinding grain. Erskine.
mum: Silent; not speaking. Thackeray.The citizens are mum, and speak not a word. Shak.
mum-chance: Silent and idle. [Colloq.]Boys can't sit mum-chance always. J. H. Ewing.
mumblenews: A talebearer. [Obs.]
mumbler: One who mumbles.
mumbling: Low; indistinct; inarticulate.-- Mum"bling*ly, adv.
mumbo jumbo: An object of superstitious homage and fear. Carlyle.The miserable Mumbo Jumbo they paraded. Dickens.
mumm: To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask.With mumming and with masking all around. Spenser.
mummer: One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; abuffon.Jugglers and dancers, antics, mummers. Milton.
mummichog: Any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishesof the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; --called also minnow. [Written also mummychog, mummachog.]
mummification: The act of making a mummy.
mummified: Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having theappearance of a mummy; withered.
mummiform: Having some resemblance to a mummy; -- in zoölogy, said of thepupæ of certain insects.
mummify: To embalm and dry as a mummy; to make into, or like, a mummy.Hall (1646).
mummy: A sort of wax used in grafting, etc.
mummychog: See Mummichog.
mumper: A beggar; a begging impostor.Deceived by the tales of a Lincoln's Inn mumper. Macaulay.
mumpish: Sullen, sulky.-- Mump"ish*ly, adv.-- Mump"ish*ness, n.
mumps: Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks. Skinner.
mun: The mouth. [Obs.]One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, Butter them and sugar themand put them in your muns. Old Rhyme. Halliwell.
munch: To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chewsprovender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. [Formerlywritten also maunch and mounch.]I could munch your good dry oats. Shak.
munchausenism: An extravagant fiction embodying an account of some marvelousexploit or adventure.
muncher: One who munches.
mund: See Mun.
mundane: Of or pertaining to the world; worldly; earthly; terrestrial;as, the mundane sphere.-- Mun"dane*ly, adv.The defilement of mundane passions. I. Taylor.
mundanity: Worldliness. [Obs.]
mundation: The act of cleansing. [Obs.]
mundatory: Cleansing; having power to cleanse. [Obs.]
mundic: Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornishminers.
mundificant: Serving to cleanse and heal.-- n.
mundification: The act or operation of cleansing.
mundificative: Cleansing.-- n.
mundify: To cleanse. [Obs.]
mundil: A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silverembroidery.
mundivagant: Wandering over the world. [R.]
mundungus: A stinking tobacco.
munerary: Having the nature of a gift. [Obs.]
munerate: To remunerate.
muneration: Remuneration. [Obs.]
mung: Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for foodin British India. Balfour (Cyc. of India).
munga: See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet.
mungcorn: Same as Mangcorn.
mungo: A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants ofwoolen goods.
mungrel: See Mongrel.
municipalism: Municipal condition.
municipality: A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town orvillage.
municipalize: To bring under municipal oversight or control; as, amunicipalized industry.
municipally: In a municipal relation or condition.
munific: Munificent; liberal. [Obs. or R.]
munificate: To enrich. [Obs.]
munificence: Means of defense; fortification. [Obs.] Spenser.
munificent: Very liberal in giving or bestowing; lavish; as, a munificentbenefactor.-- Mu*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.
munify: To prepare for defense; to fortify. [Obs.]
muniment: A record; the evidences or writings whereby a man is enabled todefend the title to his estate; title deeds and papers. Blount.Muniment house or room, that room in a cathedral, castle, or otherpublic building, which is used for keeping the records, charters,seals, deeds, and the like. Gwilt.
munite: To fortify; to strengthen. [Obs.]
munity: Freedom; security; immunity. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
munjeet: See Indian madder, under Madder.
munjistin: An orangered coloring substance resembling alizarin, found inthe root of an East Indian species of madder (Rubia munjista).
munnion: See Mullion.
muntjac: Any one of several species of small Asiatic deer of the genusCervulus, esp. C. muntjac, which occurs both in India and on the EastIndian Islands. [Written also muntjak.]
muntz metal: See under Metal.
muraena: A genus of large eels of the family Mirænidæ. They differ fromthe common eel in lacking pectoral fins and in having the dorsal andanal fins continuous. The murry (Muræna Helenæ) of Southern Europewas the muræna of the Romans. It is highly valued as a food fish.
murage: A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of afortified town.
murder: The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense oraforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide."Mordre will out." Chaucer.The killing of their children had, in the account of God, the guiltof murder, as the offering them to idols had the guilt of idolatry.Locke.Slaughter grows murder when it goes too far. Dryden.
murderess: A woman who commits murder.
murderment: Murder. [Obs.] Farfax.
murderous: Of or pertaining to murder; characterized by, or causing,murder or bloodshed; having the purpose or quality of murder; bloody;sanguinary; as, the murderous king; murderous rapine; murderousintent; a murderous assault. "Murderous coward." Shak.-- Mur"der*ous*ly, adv.
murdress: A battlement in ancient fortifications with interstices forfiring through.
mure: A wall. [Obs.] Shak.
murenger: One who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs.
murex: A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequentlyspinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rockshells. They abound in tropical seas.
murexan: A complex nitrogenous substance obtained from murexide,alloxantin, and other ureids, as a white, or yellowish, crystallinewhich turns red on exposure to the air; -- called also uramil,dialuramide, and formerly purpuric acid.
murexide: A crystalline nitrogenous substance having a splendiddichroism, being green by reflected light and garnet-red bytransmitted light. It was formerly used in dyeing calico, and wasobtained in a large quantities from guano. Formerly called alsoammonium purpurate.
murexoin: A complex nitrogenous compound obtained as a scarletcrystalline substance, and regarded as related to murexide.
muriate: A salt of muriatic hydrochloric acid; a chloride; as, muriateof ammonia.
muriated: Combined or impregnated with muriatic or hydrochloric acid.
muriatic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sea salt, or fromchlorine, one of the constituents of sea salt; hydrochloric. Muriaticacid, hydrochloric acid, HCl; -- formerly called also marine acid,and spirit of salt. See hydrochloric, and the Note under Muriate.
muriatiferous: Producing muriatic substances or salt. [Obs.]
muricoid: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Murex, or family Muricidæ.
muriculate: Minutely muricate.
muride: Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from seawater.
muriform: Resembling courses of bricks or stones in squareness andregular arrangement; as, a muriform variety of cellular tissue.
murine: Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouseis the type.
muringer: See Murenger. Jacob.
murk: Dark; murky.He can not see through the mantle murk. J. R. Drake.
murkily: Darkly; gloomily.
murkiness: The state of being murky.
murky: Dark; obscure; gloomy. "The murkiest den." Shak.A murky deep lowering o'er our heads. Addison.
murlins: A seaweed. See Baddrelocks.
murmur: To utter or give forth in low or indistinct words or sounds;as, to murmur tales. Shak.The people murmured such things concerning him. John vii. 32.
murmuration: The act of murmuring; a murmur. [Obs.] Skelton.
murmurer: One who murmurs.
murmuring: Uttering murmurs; making low sounds; complaining.-- Mur"mur*ing*ly, adv.
murmurous: Attended with murmurs; exciting murmurs or complaint;murmuring. [Archaic or Poetic]The lime, a summer home of murmurous wings. Tennyson.
murnival: In the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as fouraces or four kings; hence, four of anything. [Obs.] [Written alsomournival.]
murphy: A potato. [Humorous] Thackeray.
murr: A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
murrain: An infectious and fatal disease among cattle. Bacon. A murrainon you, may you be afflicted with a pestilent disease. Shak.
murrayin: A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica)of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bittersubstance.
murre: Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, orCatarractes; a guillemot.
murrelet: One of several species of sea birds of the generaSynthliboramphus and Brachyramphus, inhabiting the North Pacific.They are closely related to the murres.
murrey: A dark red color.-- a.
murrhine: Made of the stone or material called by the Romans murrha; --applied to certain costly vases of great beauty and delicacy used bythe luxurious in Rome as wine cups; as, murrhine vases, cups,vessels. Murrhine glass, glassware made in imitation of murrhinevases and cups.
murrion: Infected with or killed by murrain. [Obs.] Shak.
murry: See Muræna.
murth: Plenty; abundance. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
murther: Murder, n. & v. [Obs. or Prov.] "The treason of themurthering." Chaucer.
murtherer: A murderer. [Obs. or Prov.]
murza: One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one ofthe second class.
mus: A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat.
musa: A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of greatsize, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M.paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), theAbyssinian (M. Ensete), the Philippine Island (M. textilis, whichyields Manila hemp), and about eighteen other species. See Illust. ofBanana and Plantain.
musaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the genus Musa.
musal: Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. [R.]
musang: A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to thecivets. It swallows, but does not digest, large quantities of ripecoffee berries, thus serving to disseminate the coffee plant; henceit is called also coffee rat.
musar: An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerlycommon in Europe.
musard: A dreamer; an absent-minded person. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
musca: A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly,and numerous allied species.
muscadel: See Muscatel, n.Quaffed off the muscadel. Shak.
muscadine: A name given to several very different kinds of grapes, but inAmerica used chiefly for the scuppernong, or southern fox grape,which is said to be the parent stock of the Catawba. See Grapevine.
muscales: An old name for mosses in the widest sense, including the truemosses and also hepaticæ and sphagna.
muscallonge: See Muskellunge.
muscardin: The common European dormouse; -- so named from its odor.[Written also muscadine.]
muscardine: A disease which is very destructive to silkworms, and whichsometimes extends to other insects. It is attended by the developmentof a fungus (provisionally called Botrytis bassiana). Also, thefungus itself.
muscariform: Having the form of a brush.
muscarin: A solid crystalline substance, C5H13NO2, found in the toadstool(Agaricus muscarius), and in putrid fish. It is a typical ptomaine,and a violent poison.
muscat: A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes,differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat muskyflavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a paleamber color. [Written also muskat.]
muscatel: Of, pertaining to, or designating, or derived from, a muscatgrapes or similar grapes; a muscatel grapes; muscatel wine, etc.
muschelkalk: A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one ofthe three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany. See Chart,under Geology.
musci: An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. SeeMoss, and Cryptogamia.
muscicapine: Of or pertaining to the Muscicapidæ, a family of birds thatincludes the true flycatchers.
muscid: Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ.
musciform: Having the form or structure of flies of the genus Musca, orfamily Muscidæ.
muscle: See Mussel. Muscle curve (Physiol.), contraction curve of amuscle; a myogram; the curve inscribed, upon a prepared surface, bymeans of a myograph when acted upon by a contracting muscle. Thecharacter of the curve represents the extent of the contraction.
muscle reading: The art of making discriminations between objects of choice, ofdiscovering the whereabouts of hidden objects, etc., by inferencefrom the involuntary movements of one whose hand the reader holds orwith whom he is otherwise in muscular contact.
muscled: Furnished with muscles; having muscles; as, things wellmuscled.
muscling: Exhibition or representation of the muscles. [R.]A good piece, the painters say, must have good muscling, as well ascoloring and drapery. Shaftesbury.
muscogees: See Muskogees.
muscoid: Mosslike; resembling moss.
muscology: Bryology.
muscosity: Mossiness. Jonhson.
muscovado: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, unrefined or raw sugar,obtained from the juice of the sugar cane by evaporating and drainingoff the molasses. Muscovado sugar contains impurities which render itdark colored and moist.
muscovite: Common potash mica. See Mica.
muscovy duck: A duck (Cairina moschata), larger than the common duck, oftenraised in poultry yards. Called also musk duck. It is native oftropical America, from Mexico to Southern Brazil.
muscovy glass: Mica; muscovite. See Mica.
muscularity: The state or quality of being muscular. Grew.
muscularize: To make muscular. Lowell.
muscularly: In a muscular manner.
musculation: The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts.
musculature: Musculation.
muscule: A long movable shed used by besiegers in ancient times inattacking the walls of a fortified town.
musculin: See Syntonin.
musculocutaneous: Pertaining both to muscles and skin; as, the musculocutaneousnerve.
musculophrenic: Pertaining to the muscles and the diaphragm; as, themusculophrenic artery.
musculosity: The quality or state of being musculous; muscularity. [Obs.]
musculospiral: Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; --applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm.
musculous: Muscular. [Obs.] Jonhson.
muse: A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, throughwhich a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset.Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov.
museful: Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden.-- Muse"ful*ly, adv.
museless: Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry;unpoetical. Milton.
muser: One who muses.
muset: A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.Shak.
museum: A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, orliterary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest.(Zoöl.) See Anthrenus.
mush: Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn.[U.S.]
mushroom-headed: Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of largerdiameter; having a head like that of a mushroom.
mushy: Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive;weakly sentimental.She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot.
music: A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals.See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided infinding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, bymusic which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, andslower as he recedes. Tennyson.-- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical.-- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments.-- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or achurch.-- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by theaccordant movement of the celestial spheres.-- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use ofcomposers and copyists.-- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of themusical staff.-- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell(Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because thecolor markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied toother shells similarly marked.-- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity withoutflinching. [Colloq. or Slang]
music drama: An opera in which the text and action are not interrupted byset arias, duets, etc., the music being determined throughout bydramatic appropriateness; musical drama of this character, ingeneral. It involves the use of a kind of melodious declamation, thedevelopment of leitmotif, great orchestral elaboration, and a fusionof poetry, music, action, and scene into an organic whole. The termis applied esp. to the later works of Wagner
music hall: A place for public musical entertainments; specif. (Eng.), esp.a public hall for vaudeville performances, in which smoking anddrinking are usually allowed in the auditorium.
musical: Of or pertaining to music; having the qualities of music; orthe power of producing music; devoted to music; melodious;harmonious; as, musical proportion; a musical voice; musicalinstruments; a musical sentence; musical persons. Musical, or Music,box, a box or case containing apparatus moved by clockwork so as toplay certain tunes automatically.-- Musical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which utters sounds under water,as the drumfish, grunt, gizzard shad, etc.-- Musical glasses, glass goblets or bowls so tuned and arrangedthat when struck, or rubbed, they produce musical notes. CF.Harmonica, 1.
musicale: A social musical party. [Colloq.]
musically: In a musical manner.
musicalness: The quality of being musical.
musician: One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilledsinger, or performer on a musical instrument.
musicomania: A kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes sostrong as to derange the intellectual faculties. Dunglison.
musimon: See Mouflon.
musingly: In a musing manner.
musit: See Muset.
musk: The musk deer. See Musk deer (below).
muskadel: See Muscadel.
muskat: See Muscat.
muskellunge: A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the GreatLakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River. It isvalued as a food fish. [Written also maskallonge, maskinonge,muskallonge, muskellonge, and muskelunjeh.]
musket: The male of the sparrow hawk.
musketeer: A soldier armed with a musket.
musketo: See Mosquito.
muskiness: The quality or state of being musky; the scent of musk.
muskmelon: The fruit of a cucubritaceous plant (Cicumis Melo), having apeculiar aromatic flavor, and cultivated in many varieties, theprincipal sorts being the cantaloupe, of oval form and yellowishflesh, and the smaller nutmeg melon with greenish flesh. See Illust.of Melon.
muskogees: A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerlyoccupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. Theyconstituted a large part of the Creek confederacy. [Written alsoMuscogees.]
muskrat: A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus).It resembles a rat in color and having a long scaly tail, but thetail is compressed, the bind feet are webbed, and the ears areconcealed in the fur. It has scent glands which secrete a substancehaving a strong odor of musk. Called also musquash, musk beaver, andondatra.
musky: Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. Milton.
muslim: See Moslem.
muslin: A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is alsoapplied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting andsheeting muslins. Muslin cambric. See Cambric.-- Muslin delaine, a light woolen fabric for women's dresses. SeeDelaine. [Written also mousseline de laine.]
muslinet: A sort of coarse or light cotton cloth.
musmon: See Mouflon.
musomania: See Musicomania.
musquash: See Muskrat. Musquash root (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant(Cicuta maculata), having a poisonous root. See Water hemlock.
musquaw: The American black bear. See Bear.
musquet: See Musket.
musquito: See Mosquito.
muss: A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be takenby those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak.
mussel: Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genusMytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel(Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse,mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe andAmerica, are edible. The former is extensively used as food inEurope.
mussitation: A speaking in a low tone; mumbling. [Obs.]
mussite: A variety of pyroxene, from the Mussa Alp in Piedmont;diopside.
mussulman: A Mohammedan; a Moslem.
mussulmanic: Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs:Mohammedan.
mussulmanish: Mohammedan.
mussulmanism: Mohammedanism.
mussulmanly: In the manner of Moslems.
mussy: Disarranged; rumpled. [Colloq. U.S.]
must: Mustiness.
mustac: A small tufted monkey.
mustache: A West African monkey (Cercopithecus cephus). It has yellowwhiskers, and a triangular blue mark on the nose.
mustacho: A mustache. Longfellow.
mustachoed: Having mustachios.
mustahfiz: See Army organization, above.
mustaiba: A close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought fromBrazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and thelike. [Written also mostahiba.] MaElrath.
mustang: The half-wild horse of the plains in Mexico, California, etc.It is small, hardy, and easily sustained. Mustard grape (Bot.), aspecies of grape (Vitis candicans), native in Arkansas and Texas. Theberries are small, light-colored, with an acid skin and a sweet pulp.
mustard: The name of several cruciferous plants of the genus Brassica(formerly Sinapis), as white mustard (B. alba), black mustard (B.Nigra), wild mustard or charlock (B. Sinapistrum).
mustee: See Mestee.
musteline: Like or pertaining to the family Mustelidæ, or the weasels andmartens.
muster: To be gathered together for parade, inspection, exercise, orthe like; to come together as parts of a force or body; as, hissupporters mustered in force. "The mustering squadron." Byron.
mustily: In a musty state.
mustiness: The quality or state of being musty.
mutability: The quality of being mutable, or subject to change oralteration, either in form, state, or essential character;susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation.Plato confessed that the heavens and the frame of the world arecorporeal, and therefore subject to mutability. Stillingfleet.
mutableness: The quality of being mutable.
mutably: Changeably.
mutacism: See Mytacism.
mutage: A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes.
mutandum: A thing which is to be changed; something which must bealtered; -- used chiefly in the plural.
mutation: Change; alteration, either in form or qualities.The vicissitude or mutations in the superior globe are no fit matterfor this present argument. Bacon.
mutch: The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman. [Prov. Eng. &Scot.]
mutchkin: A liquid measure equal to four gills, or an imperial pint.[Scot.]
mute: To cast off; to molt.Have I muted all my feathers Beau. & Fl.
mute-hill: See Moot-hill. [Scot.]
mutely: Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently.
muteness: The quality or state of being mute; speechlessness.
mutessarif: In Turkey, an administrative authority of any of certainsanjaks. They are appointed directly by the Sultan.
mutessarifat: In Turkey, a sanjak whose head is a mutessarif.
mutilate: Having finlike appendages or flukes instead of legs, as acetacean.
mutilation: The act of mutilating, or the state of being mutilated;deprivation of a limb or of an essential part.
mutilator: One who mutilates.
mutilous: Mutilated; defective; imperfect. [Obs.]
mutine: A mutineer. [Obs.]
mutineer: One guilty of mutiny.
muting: Dung of birds.
mutinous: Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized bymutiny; seditious; insubordinate.The city was becoming mutinous. Macaulay.-- Mu"ti*nous*ly, adv.-- Mu"ti*nous*ness, n.
mutism: The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or withoutspeech. Max Müller.
mutoscope: A simple form of moving-picture machine in which the series ofviews, exhibiting the successive phases of a scene, are printed onpaper and mounted around the periphery of a wheel. The rotation ofthe wheel brings them rapidly into sight, one after another, and theblended effect gives a semblance of motion.
mutter: To utter with imperfect articulations, or with a low voice; as,to mutter threats. Shak.
mutterer: One who mutters.
mutteringly: With a low voice and indistinct articulation; in a mutteringmanner.
muttony: Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton.
mutualism: The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition ofindividual and social welfare. F. Harrison. H. Spencer. Mallock.
mutuality: Reciprocity of consideration. Wharton.
mutually: In a mutual manner.
mutuary: One who borrows personal chattels which are to be consumed byhim, and which he is to return or repay in kind. Bouvier.
mutuation: The act of borrowing or exchanging. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
mutule: A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice,in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian andComposite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. Oxf. Gloss.
mux: Dirt; filth; muck. [Prov. Eng.] ose.
muxy: Soft; sticky, and dirty. [Prov. Eng.] See Mucky.
muzarab: One of a denomination of Christians formerly living under thegovernment of the Moors in Spain, and having a liturgy and ritual oftheir own. [Written also Mozarab, Mostarab.] Brande & C.
muzarabic: Of or pertaining to Muzarabs; as, the Muzarabic liturgy.[Written also Mozarabic.]
muzziness: The state or quality of being muzzy.
muzzle: To bring the mouth or muzzle near.The bear muzzles and smels to him. L'Estrange.
muzzle-loader: A firearm which receives its charge through the muzzle, asdistinguished from one which is loaded at the breech.
muzzle-loading: Receiving its charge through the muzzle; as, a muzzle-loadingrifle.
muzzy: Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like menwhose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W.Irving.
my: Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, mybody; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book ismine. See Mine.
mya: A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, orsoft-shelled, clam.
myalgia: Pain in the muscles; muscular rheumatism or neuralgia.
myall wood: A durable, fragrant, and dark-colored Australian wood, used bythe natives for spears. It is obtained from the small tree Acaciahomolophylla.
myaria: A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya)is the type.
mycelium: The white threads or filamentous growth from which a mushroomor fungus is developed; the so-called mushroom spawn.-- My*ce"li*al, a.
myceloid: Resembling mycelium.
mycetes: A genus of South American monkeys, including the howlers. SeeHowler, 2, and Illust.
mycetoid: Resembling a fungus.
mycetozoa: The Myxomycetes; -- so called by those who regard them as aclass of animals. -- My*ce`to*zo"an (#), a.
mycoderma: One of the forms in which bacteria group themselves; a more orless thick layer of motionless but living bacteria, formed by thebacteria uniting on the surface of the fluid in which they aredeveloped. This production differs from the zoöloea stage of bacteriaby not having the intermediary mucous substance.
mycologist: One who is versed in, or who studies, mycology.
mycology: That branch of botanical science which relates to the musgroomsand other fungi.
mycomelic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid ofthe alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder. Its solutionshave a gelatinous consistency.
mycoprotein: The protoplasmic matter of which bacteria are composed.
mycose: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained fromcertain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. [Written alsomykose.]
mycothrix: The chain of micrococci formed by the division of themicrococci in multiplication.
mydaleine: A toxic alkaloid (ptomaine) obtained from putrid flesh and fromherring brines. As a poison it is said to execute profuse diarrhoea,vomiting, and intestinal inflammation. Brieger.
mydatoxin: A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger fromdecaying horseflesh. In physiological action, it is similar tocurare.
mydaus: The teledu.
mydriasis: A long-continued or excessive dilatation of the pupil of theeye.
mydriatic: Causing dilatation of the pupil.-- n.
myelencephala: Same as Vertebrata.
myelencephalic: Of or pertaining to the myelencephalon; cerebro-spinal.
myelencephalous: Of or pertaining to the Myelencephala.
myelitis: Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes.
myelocoele: The central canal of the spinal cord.
myelogenic: Derived from, or pertaining to, the bone marrow.
myeloid: Resembling marrow in appearance or consistency; as, a myeloidtumor.
myeloidin: A substance, present in the protoplasm of the retinalepithelium cells, and resembling, if not identical with, thesubstance (myelin) forming the medullary sheaths of nerve fibers.
myelon: The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.)
myelonal: Of or pertaining to the myelon; as, the myelonal, or spinal,nerves.
myeloneura: The Vertebrata.
myeloplax: One of the huge multinucleated cells found in the marrow ofbone and occasionally in other parts; a giant cell. See Osteoclast.
mygale: A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and onlyfour spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubesin the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The SouthAmerican bird spider (Mygale avicularia), and the crab spider, ormatoutou (M. cancerides) are among the largest species. Some of thespecies are erroneously called tarantulas, as the Texas tarantula (M.Hentzii).
mykiss: A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn. S. purpuratus) marked with blackspots and a red throat, found in most of the rivers from Alaska tothe Colorado River, and in Siberia; -- called also black-spottedtrout, cutthroat trout, and redthroat trout.
mylodon: An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, alliedto Megatherium.
mylohyoid: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the lower jaw and the hyoidapparatus; as, the mylohyoid nerve.
myna: Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the generaAcridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. Inhabits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are oftencaged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird.[Spelt also mynah.]
mynchen: A nun. [Obs.]
mynchery: A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certainnunneries in England.
mynheer: The Dutch equivalent of Mr. or Sir; hence, a Dutchman.
myo-: A combining form of Gr. muscle; as, myograph, myochrome.
myocarditis: Inflammation of the myocardium.
myocardium: The main substance of the muscular wall of the heart inclosedbetween the epicardium and endocardium.
myochrome: A colored albuminous substance in the serum from red-coloredmuscles. It is identical with hemoglobin.
myocomma: A myotome.
myodynamics: The department of physiology which deals with the principles ofmuscular contraction; the exercise of muscular force or contraction.
myodynamiometer: A myodynamometer.
myodynamometer: An instrument for measuring the muscular strength of man or ofother animals; a dynamometer. Dunglison.
myoepithelial: Derived from epithelial cells and destined to become a part ofthe muscular system; -- applied to structural elements in certainembryonic forms.
myogalid: One of the Myogalodæ, a family of Insectivora, including thedesman, and allied species.
myogram: See Muscle curve, under Muscle.
myograph: An instrument for determining and recording the differentphases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.
myography: The description of muscles, including the study of muscularcontraction by the aid of registering apparatus, as by some form ofmyograph; myology.
myohaematin: A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated withhemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, bothvertebrate and invertebrate.
myoid: Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber.
myolemma: Sarcolemma.
myolin: The essential material of muscle fibers.
myologist: One skilled in myology.
myology: That part of anatomy which treats of muscles.
myoma: A tumor consisting of muscular tissue.
myomancy: Divination by the movements of mice.
myomorph: One of the Myomorpha.
myomorpha: An extensive group of rodents which includes the rats, mice,jerboas, and many allied forms.
myopathia: Any affection of the muscles or muscular system.
myopathic: Of or pertaining to myopathia.
myopathy: Same as Myopathia.
myope: A person having myopy; a myops.
myophan: A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems ofcertain Infusoria.
myopia: Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye inwhich the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before theyreach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the raysfrom very near objects are normally converged so as to produce adistinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens.
myopic: Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia;nearsighted. Myopic astigmatism, a condition in which the eye isaffected with myopia in one meridian only.
myops: See Myope.
myopsis: The appearance of muscæ volitantes. See Muscæ volitantes, underMusca.
myopy: Myopia.
myosin: An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in theprocess of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clotformed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, underPlasma.
myosis: Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye.
myositic: Myotic.
myositis: Inflammation of the muscles.
myosotis: A genus of plants. See Mouse-ear.
myotic: Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, asopium, calabar bean, etc.-- n.
myotomic: Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes.
myotomy: The dissection, or that part of anatomy which treats of thedissection, of muscles.
myrcia: A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearlyrelated to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ inhaving very few seeds in each berry.
myria-: A prefix, esp. in the metric system, indicating ten thousand,ten thousand times; as, myriameter.
myriacanthous: Having numerous spines, as certain fishes.
myriad: Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number; as, myriadstars.
myriapod: One of the Myriapoda.
myriapoda: A class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapodinsects, from which they differ in having the body made up ofnumerous similar segments, nearly all of which bear true jointedlegs. They have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, andnumerous trachaæ, similar to those of true insects. The larvæ, whenfirst hatched, often have but three pairs of legs. See Centiped,Galleyworm, Milliped.
myriarch: A captain or commander of ten thousand men.
myriare: A measure of surface in the metric system containing tenthousand ares, or one million square meters. It is equal to about247.1 acres.
myrica: A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually witharomatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweetgale, and the North American sweet fern, so called.
myricin: A silky, crystalline, waxy substance, forming the less solublepart of beeswax, and regarded as a palmitate of a higher alcohol ofthe paraffin series; -- called also myricyl alcohol.
myricyl: A hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue ofmyricin; -- called also melissyl.
myriological: Of or relating to a myriologue.
myriologist: One who composes or sings a myriologue.
myriologue: An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman onthe death of a friend. [Modern Greece]
myriophyllous: Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves.
myriopoda: See Myriapoda.
myriorama: A picture made up of several smaller pictures, drawn uponseparate pieces in such a manner as to admit of combination in manydifferent ways, thus producing a great variety of scenes orlandscapes.
myrioscope: A form of kaleidoscope.
myristate: A salt of myristic acid.
myristic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the nutmeg (Myristica).Specifically, designating an acid found in nutmeg oil and otoba fat,and extracted as a white crystalline waxy substance.
myristin: The myristate of glycerin, -- found as a vegetable fat innutmeg butter, etc.
myristone: The ketone of myristic acid, obtained as a white crystallinesubstance.
myrmecophyte: A plant that affords shelter and food to certain species ofants which live in symbiotic relations with it. Special adaptationsfor this purpose exist; thus, Acacia spadicigera has large hollowsthorns, and species of Cecropia have stem cavities. --Myr`me*co*phyt"ic (#), a.
myrmicine: Of or pertaining to Myrmica, a genus of ants including thesmall house ant (M. molesta), and many others.
myrmidonian: Consisting of, or like, myrmidons. Pope.
myrmotherine: Feeding upon ants; -- said of certain birds.
myronic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, mustard; -- used specificallyto designate a glucoside called myronic acid, found in mustard seed.
myropolist: One who sells unguents or perfumery. [Obs.] Jonhson.
myrosin: A ferment, resembling diastase, found in mustard seeds.
myroxylon: A genus of leguminous trees of tropical America, the differentspecies of which yield balsamic products, among which are balsam ofPeru, and balsam of Tolu. The species were formerly referred toMyrospermum.
myrrh: A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of anaromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste. It is valued forits odor and for its medicinal properties. It exuds from the bark ofa shrub of Abyssinia and Arabia, the Balsamodendron Myrrha. The myrrhof the Bible is supposed to have been partly the gum above named, andpartly the exudation of species of Cistus, or rockrose. False myrrh.See the Note under Bdellium.
myrrhic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, myrrh.
myrrhine: Murrhine.
myrtaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large and important naturalorder of trees and shrubs (Myrtaceæ), of which the myrtle is thetype. It includes the genera Eucalyptus, Pimenta, Lechythis, andabout seventy more.
myrtiform: Resembling myrtle or myrtle berries; having the form of amyrtle leaf.
myrtle: A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis. Thecommon myrtle has a shrubby, upright stem, eight or ten feet high.Its branches form a close, full head, thickly covered with ovate orlanceolate evergreen leaves. It has solitary axillary white or rosyflowers, followed by black several-seeded berries. The ancientsconsidered it sacred to Venus. The flowers, leaves, and berries areused variously in perfumery and as a condiment, and the beautifullymottled wood is used in turning.
myself: I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person;as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also insteadof me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, withoutemphasis; as, I will defend myself.
myselven: Myself. [Obs.]
mysis: A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and saltwater; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes ofNorth America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marinespecies form part of the food of right whales.
mystacal: Of or pertaining to the upper lip, or mustache.
mystagogy: The doctrines, principles, or practice of a mystagogue;interpretation of mysteries.
mysterial: Mysterious. [Obs.]
mysteriarch: One presiding over mysteries. [Obs.]
mysterious: Of or pertaining to mystery; containing a mystery; difficult orimpossible to understand; obscure not revealed or explained;enigmatical; incomprehensible.God at last To Satan, first in sin, his doom applied, Thought inmysterious terms. Milton.
mysteriously: In a mysterious manner.
mysterize: To make mysterious; to make a mystery of.
mystery: The consecrated elements in the eucharist.
mystic: One given to mysticism; one who holds mystical views,interpretations, etc.; especially, in ecclesiastical history, one whoprofessed mysticism. See Mysticism.
mysticete: Any right whale, or whalebone whale. See Cetacea.
mysticism: The doctrine of the Mystics, who professed a pure, sublime, andwholly disinterested devotion, and maintained that they had directintercourse with the divine Spirit, and aquired a knowledge of Godand of spiritual things unattainable by the natural intellect, andsuch as can not be analyzed or explained.
mystification: The act of mystifying, or the state of being mystied; also,something designed to, or that does, mystify.The reply of Pope seems very much as though he had been playing off amystification on his Grace. De Quincey.
mystificator: One who mystifies.
mytacism: Too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound representedby it.
mythe: See Myth. Grote.
mythographer: A composer of fables.
mythologer: A mythologist.
mythologian: A mythologist.
mythologist: One versed in, or who writes on, mythology or myths.
mythologizer: One who, or that which, mythologizes.Imagination has always been, and still is, in a narrower sense, thegreat mythologizer. Lowell.
mythologue: A fabulous narrative; a myth. [R.]May we not ... consider his history of the fall as an excellentmythologue, to account for the origin of human evil Geddes.
mythoplasm: A narration of mere fable.
mythopoeic: Making or producing myths; giving rise to mythical narratives.The mythopoeic fertility of the Greeks. Grote.
mythopoetic: Making or producing myths or mythical tales.
mytiloid: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Mytilus, or family Mytilidæ.
mytilotoxine: A poisonous base (leucomaine) found in the common mussel. Iteither causes paralysis of the muscles, or gives rise to convulsions,including death by an accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood.
mytilus: A genus of marine bivalve shells, including the common mussel.See Illust. under Byssus.
myxa: The distal end of the mandibles of a bird.
myxine: A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4.
myxinoid: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Myxine.-- n.
myxocystodea: A division of Infusoria including the Noctiluca. See Noctiluca.
myxoedema: A disease producing a peculiar cretinoid appearance of theface, slow speech, and dullness of intellect, and due to failure ofthe functions of the thyroid gland. -- Myx`o*dem"a*tous (#), a.,Myx`o*dem"ic (#), a.
myxoma: A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found inthe umbilical cord.
myxomycetes: A class of peculiar organisms, the slime molds, formerlyregarded as animals (Mycetozoa), but now generally thought to beplants and often separated as a distinct phylum (Myxophyta). They arefound on damp earth and decaying vegetable matter, and consist ofnaked masses of protoplasm, often of considerable size, which creepvery slowly  over the surface and ingest solid food. --Myx`o*my*ce"tous (#), a.
myxophyta: A phylum of the vegetable kingdom consisting of the classMyxomycetes. By some botanists it is not separated from theThallophyta.
myxopod: A rhizopod or moneran. Also used adjectively; as, a myxopodstate.
myzontes: The Marsipobranchiata.
myzostomata: An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids. The bodyis short and disklike, with four pairs of suckers and five pairs ofhook-bearing parapodia on the under side.
n: N, the fourteenth letter of English alphabet, is a vocalconsonent, and, in allusion to its mode of formation, is called thedentinasal or linguanasal consonent. Its commoner sound is that heardin ran, done; but when immediately followed in the same word by thesound of g hard or k (as in single, sink, conquer), it usuallyrepresents the same sound as the digraph ng in sing, bring, etc. Thisis a simple but related sound, and is called the gutturo-nasalconsonent. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 243-246. The letter N cameinto English through the Latin and Greek from the Phoenician, whichprobably derived it from the Egyptian as the ultimate origin. It isetymologically most closely related to M. See M.
na: No, not. See No. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nab: The cock of a gunlock. Knight.
nabit: Pulverized sugar candy. Crabb.
nabk: The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of NorthernAfrica, and Southwestern Europe. [Written also nubk.] See Lotus (b),and Sadr.
nacker: See Nacre. Johnson.
nacre: A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, andis most perfect in the mother-of-pearl. [Written also nacker andnaker.] See Pearl, and Mother-of-pearl.
nacreous: Consisting of, or resembling, nacre; pearly.
nadder: An adder. [Obs.] Chaucer.
naenia: See Nenia.
naeve: A nævus. [Obs.] Dryden.
naevoid: Resembling a nævus or nævi; as, nævoid elephantiasis.Dunglison.
naevose: Spotted; frecled.
naevus: A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark;-- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainlyof blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries.
nag: To tease in a petty way; to scold habitually; to annoy; to fretpertinaciously. [Colloq.] "She never nagged." J. Ingelow.
nagana: The disease caused by the tsetse fly. [South Africa]
nagging: Fault-finding; teasing; persistently annoying; as, a naggingtoothache. [Colloq.]
naggy: Irritable; touchy. [Colloq.]
nagor: A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca).
nagyagite: A mineral of blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster,generally of a foliated massive structure; foliated tellurium. It isa telluride of lead and gold.
naiad: A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled topreside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, orfountain.
naiant: (Her.) See Natant. Crabb.
naid: Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chætopodannelids of the tribe Naidina. They belong to the Oligochæta.
naik: A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal. Balfour (Cyc. of India).
nail: the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingersand toes of man and many apes.His nayles like a briddes claws were. Chaucer.
nail-headed: Having a head like that of a nail; formed so as to resemble thehead of a nail. Nail-headed characters, arrowheaded or cuneiformcharacters. See under Arrowheaded.-- Nail-headed molding (Arch.), an ornament consisting of a seriesof low four-sided pyramids resembling the heads of large nails; --called also nail-head molding, or nail-head. It is the same as thesimplest form of dogtooth. See Dogtooth.
nailbrush: A brush for cleaning the nails.
naileress: A women who makes nailes.
nailery: A manufactory where nails are made.
nailless: Without nails; having no nails.
nainsook: A thick sort of jaconet muslin, plain or striped, formerly madein India.
nais: See Naiad.
naissant: Same as Jessant.
naive: Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless;frank; as, naïve manners; a naïve person; naïve and unsophisticatedremarks.
naively: In a naïve manner.
naivete: Native simplicity; unaffected plainness or ingenuousness;artlessness.A story which pleases me by its naïveté -- that is, by itsunconscious ingenuousness. De Quincey.
naivety: , n. Naïveté. Carlyle.
nake: ,v.t. To make naked. [Obs.] Chaucer.Come, be ready, nake your swords. Old Play.
naked: Without pubescence; as, a naked leaf or stem; bare, or notcovered by the customary parts, as a flower without a perianth, astem without leaves, seeds without a pericarp, buds without budscales.
nakedly: In a naked manner; without covering or disguise; manifestly;simply; barely.
nakedness: The privy parts; the genitals.Ham ... saw the nakedness of his father. Gen. ix. 22.
naker: Same as Nacre.
nakoo: The gavial. [Written also nako.]
nale: Ale; also, an alehouse. [Obs.]Great feasts at the nale. Chaucer.
nall: An awl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.
nam: Am not. [Obs.]
namable: Capable of being named.
namation: A distraining or levying of a distress; an impounding. Burrill.
namaycush: A large North American lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush). It isusually spotted with red, and sometimes weighs over forty pounds.Called also Mackinaw trout, lake trout, lake salmon, salmon trout,togue, and tuladi.
namby-pamby: Talk or writing which is weakly sentimental or affectedlypretty. Macaulay.
name: To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way ofreprimand.
namelessly: In a nameless manner.
namer: One who names, or calls by name.
namesake: One that has the same name as another; especially, one calledafter, or named out of regard to, another.
namo: No more. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nan: Anan. [Prov. Eng.]
nandine: An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets.It is spotted with black.
nanism: The condition of being abnormally small in stature;dwarfishness; -- opposed to gigantism.
nankeen: Trousers made of nankeen. Ld. Lytton. Nankeen bird (Zoöl.), theAustralian night heron (Nycticorax Caledonicus); -- called alsoquaker.
nanny: A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name. Nanny goat, afemale goat. [Colloq.]
nannyberry: See Sheepberry.
nanpie: The magpie.
naos: A term used by modern archæologists instead of cella. SeeCella.
nap: A short sleep; a doze; a siesta. Cowper.
nap-taking: A taking by surprise; an unexpected onset or attack. Carew.
nape: The back part of the neck. Spenser.
nape-crest: An African bird of the genus Schizorhis, related to theplantain eaters.
napery: Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general. [Obs.]Gayton.
napha water: A perfume distilled from orange flowers.
naphew: See Navew.
naphtha: The complex mixture of volatile, liquid, inflammablehydrocarbons, occurring naturally, and usually called crudepetroleum, mineral oil, or rock oil. Specifically
naphthalate: A salt of naphthalic acid; a phthalate. [Obs.]
naphthalene: A white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous tobenzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminousmaterials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar. It is the type andbasis of a large number of derivatives among organic compounds.Formerly called also naphthaline. Naphthalene red (Chem.), a dyestuffobtained from certain diazo derivatives of naphthylamine, and calledalso magdala red.-- Naphthalene yellow (Chem.), a yellow dyestuff obtained fromcertain nitro derivatives of naphthol.
naphthalenic: Pertaining to , or derived from, naphthalene; -- usedspecifically to designate a yellow crystalline substance, callednaphthalenic acid and also hydroxy quinone, and obtained from certainderivatives of naphthol.
naphthalidine: Same as Naphthylamine.
naphthalize: To mingle, saturate, or impregnate, with naphtha.
naphthazarin: A dyestuff, resembling alizarin, obtained from naphthoquinoneas a red crystalline substance with a bright green, metallic luster;-- called also naphthalizarin.
naphthene: A peculiar hydrocarbon occuring as an ingredient of Caucasianpetroleum.
naphthide: A compound of naphthalene or its radical with a metallicelement; as, mercuric naphthide.
naphthoic: Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; --used specifically to designate any one of a series of carboxylderivatives, called naphthoic acids.
naphthol: Any one of a series of hydroxyl derivatives of naphthalene,analogous to phenol. In general they are crystalline substances witha phenol (carbolic) odor. Naphthol blue, Naphthol orange, Naphtholyellow (Chem.), brilliant dyestuffs produced from certain complexnitrogenous derivatives of naphthol or naphthoquinone.
naphthoquinone: A yellow crystalline substance, C10H6O2, analogous to quinone,obtained by oxidizing naphthalene with chromic acid.
naphthyl: A hydrocarbon radical regarded as the essential residue ofnaphthalene.
naphthylamine: One of two basic amido derivatives of naphthalene, C10H7.NH2,forming crystalline solids.
napiform: Turnip-shaped; large and round in the upper part, and veryslender below.
naples yellow: See under Yellow.
napless: Without nap; threadbare. Shak.
napoleon: A French gold coin of twenty francs, or about $3.86.
napoleonic: Of or pertaining to Napoleon I., or his family; resembling, orhaving the qualities of, Napoleon I. Lowell.
napoleonist: A supporter of the dynasty of the Napoleons.
nappe: Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that iscontinuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any onepoint of the portion to any other point of the portion withoutleaving the surface. Thus, some hyperboloids have one nappe, and somehave two.
nappiness: The quality of having a nap; abundance of nap, as on cloth.
napping: A sheet of partially felted fur before it is united to the hatbody. Knight.
nappy: Having a nap or pile; downy; shaggy. Holland.
napu: A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java.It is about the size of a hare, and is noted for its agility inleaping. Called also Java musk deer, pygmy musk deer, and deerlet.
napus: A kind of turnip. See Navew.
narceine: An alkaloid found in small quantities in opium, and extractedas a white crystalline substance of a bitter astringent taste. It isa narcotic. Called also narceia.
narcissine: Of or pertaining to Narcissus.
narcissus: A genus of endogenous bulbous plants with handsome flowers,having a cup-shaped crown within the six-lobed perianth, andcomprising the daffodils and jonquils of several kinds.
narcosis: Privation of sense or consciousness, due to a narcotic.
narcotic: Having the properties of a narcotic; operating as a narcotic.-- Nar*cot"ic*ness, n.
narcotical: Narcotic.-- Nar*cot"ic*al*ly, adv.
narcotine: An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a whitecrystalline substance, tasteless and less poisonous than morphine; --called also narcotia.
narcotinic: Pertaining to narcotine.
narcotism: Narcosis; the state of being narcotized. G. Eliot.
narcotize: To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; toput into a state of narcosis.
nard: An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi) of the Valerianfamily, used from remote ages in Oriental perfumery.
nardine: Of or pertaining to nard; having the qualities of nard.
nardoo: An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leavedcryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food.
nare: A nostril. [R.] B. Jonson.
nares: The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being theexternal or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings ofthe nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx.
narica: The brown coati. See Coati.
nariform: Formed like the nose.
narine: Of or belonging to the nostrils.
narrable: Capable of being narrated or told. [Obs.]
narragansetts: A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited the shores ofNarragansett Bay.
narrate: To tell, rehearse, or recite, as a story; to relate theparticulars of; to go through with in detail, as an incident ortransaction; to give an account of.
narration: That part of a discourse which recites the time, manner, orconsequences of an action, or simply states the facts connected withthe subject.
narrative: That which is narrated; the recital of a story; a continuousaccount of the particulars of an event or transaction; a story.Cyntio was much taken with my narrative. Tatler.
narratively: In the style of narration.
narrator: One who narrates; one who relates a series of events ortransactions.
narratory: Giving an account of events; narrative; as, narratory letters.Howell.
narre: Nearer. [Obs.] Spenser.
narrow: Formed (as a vowel) by a close position of some part of thetongue in relation to the palate; or (according to Bell) by a tensecondition of the pharynx; -- distinguished from wide; as e (eve) andoo (food), etc., from ì (ìll) and oo (foot), etc. See Guide toPronunciation, § 13.
narrow-minded: Of narrow mental scope; illiberal; mean.-- Nar"row-mind`ed*ness, n.
narrower: One who, or that which, narrows or contracts. Hannah More.
narrowness: The condition or quality of being narrow.
nart: Art not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
narthex: A tall umbelliferous plant (Ferula communis). See Giant fennel,under Fennel.
narwal: See Narwhal.
narwe: Narrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
narwhal: An arctic cetacean (Monodon monocerous), about twenty feetlong. The male usually has one long, twisted, pointed canine tooth,or tusk projecting forward from the upper jaw like a horn, whence itis called also sea unicorn, unicorn fish, and unicorn whale.Sometimes two horns are developed, side by side.
nas: Was not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nasal: Of or pertaining to the nose.
nasality: The quality or state of being nasal.
nasalization: The act of nasalizing, or the state of being nasalized.
nasalize: To render nasal, as sound; to insert a nasal or sound in.
nasally: In a nasal manner; by the nose.
nascal: A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used.
nascency: State of being nascent; birth; beginning; origin.
nascent: Evolving; being evolved or produced. Nascent state (Chem.), thesupposed instantaneous or momentary state of an uncombined atom orradical just separated from one compound acid, and not yet unitedwith another, -- a hypothetical condition implying peculiarly activechemical properties; as, hydrogen in the nascent state is a strongreducer.
naseberry: A tropical fruit. See Sapodilla. [Written also nisberry.]
nash: Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
nasicornous: Bearing a horn, or horns, on the nose, as the rhinoceros.
nasiform: Having the shape of a nose.
nasion: The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.
naso-: A combining form denoting pertaining to, or connected with, thenose; as, nasofrontal.
nasobuccal: Connected with both the nose and the mouth; as, the nasobuccalgroove in the skate.
nasofrontal: of or pertaining to the nose and the front of the head; as, theembryonic nasofrontal process which forms the anterior boundary ofthe mouth.
nasolachrymal: Connected with the lachrymal apparatus and the nose; as, thenasolachrymal, or lachrymal duct.
nasopharyngeal: Of or pertaining to both throat and nose; as, a nasopharyngealpolypus.
nasoseptal: Of or pertaining to the internasal septum.
nasoturbinal: Connected with, or near, both the turbinal and the nasal bones;as, the nasalturbinal bone, made up of the uppermost lammelæ of theethmoturbinal, and sometimes united with the nasal.-- n.
nassa: Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia,and other allied genera of the family Nassidæ; a dog whelk. SeeIllust. under Gastropoda.-- nas"soid, a.
nastily: In a nasty manner.
nastiness: The quality or state of being nasty; extreme filthness;dirtiness; also, indecency; obscenity.The nastiness of Plautus and Aristophanes. Dryden.
nasturtion: Same as Nasturtium.
nasturtium: A genus of cruciferous plants, having white or yellowishflowers, including several species of cress. They are found chieflyin wet or damp grounds, and have a pungent biting taste.
nasutness: Quickness of scent; hence, nice discernment; acuteness. [Obs.]Dr. H. More.
nat: Not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
natal: Presiding over nativity; as, natal Jove.
natal boil: = Aleppo boil.
natal plum: The drupaceous fruit of two South African shrubs of the genusArduina (A. bispinosa and A. grandiflora).
nataloin: A bitter crystalline substance constituting the essentialprinciple of Natal aloes. Cf. Aloon.
natals: One's birth, or the circumstances attending it. [Obs.] Fitz-Geffry.
natant: Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed,as those of many aquatic plants.
natantly: In a floating manner; swimmingly.
natation: The act of floating on the water; swimming. Sir T. Browne.
natatores: The swimming birds.
natatorial: Inclined or adapted to swim; swimming; as, natatorial birds.
natatorious: Adapted for swimming; -- said of the legs of certain insects.
natatorium: A swimming bath.
natatory: Adapted for swimming or floating; as, natatory organs.
natch: The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump.Natch bone, the edgebone, or aitchbone, in beef.
natchez: A tribe of Indians who formerly lived near the site of the cityof Natchez, Mississippi. In 1729 they were subdued by the French; thesurvivors joined the Creek Confederacy.
natchnee: An annual grass (Eleusine coracona), cultivated in India as afood plant.
nates: The umbones of a bivalve shell.
nath: hath not. [Obs.]
nathless: Nevertheless. [Archaic] Chaucer. Milton. E. Arnold.
nathmore: Not the more; never the more. [Obs.] penser.
natica: Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging toNatica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidæ.)They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells.
naticoid: Like or belonging to Natica, or the family Naticæ.
nation: A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguishedfrom the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; astock.All nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues. Rev. vii. 9.
nationalist: One who advocates national unity and independence; one of aparty favoring Irish independence.
nationalization: The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized.
nationalize: To make national; to make a nation of; to endow with thecharacter and habits of a nation, or the peculiar sentiments andattachment of citizens of a nation.
nationally: In a national manner or way; as a nation. "The jews ... beingnationally espoused to God by covenant." South.
nationalness: The quality or state of being national; nationality. Johnson.
nationalrath: See Legislature.
native: Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished fromsuch as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. [U.S.]
native steel: A sort of steel which has been found where a burning coal seamhad reduced and carbonized adjacent iron ore.
natively: By natural or original condition; naturally; originally.
nativeness: The quality or state of being native.
nativism: The doctrine of innate ideas, or that the mind possesses formsof thought independent of sensation.
nativist: An advocate of nativism.
nativistic: Relating to nativism.
nativity: A picture representing or symbolizing the early infancy ofChrist. The simplest form is the babe in a rude cradle, and the headsof an ox and an ass to express the stable in which he was born.
natka: A species of shrike.
natrium: The technical name for sodium.
natrolite: A zeolite occuring in groups of glassy acicular crystals, andin masses which often have a radiated structure. It is a hydroussilicate of alumina and soda.
natron: Native sodium carbonate. [Written also anatron.]
natter: To find fault; to be peevish. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.]
natterjack: A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along itsback.
natty: Neat; tidy; spruce. [Colloq.] -- Nat"ti*ly, adv.-- Nat"ti*ness, n.
natural: Belonging to, to be taken in, or referred to, some system, inwhich the base is 1; -- said or certain functions or numbers; as,natural numbers, those commencing at 1; natural sines, cosines, etc.,those taken in arcs whose radii are 1.
natural steel: Steel made by the direct refining of cast iron in a finery, or,as wootz, by a direct process from the ore.
naturalism: The doctrine of those who deny a supernatural agency in themiracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in spiritualinfluences; also, any system of philosophy which refers the phenomenaof nature to a blind force or forces acting necessarily or accordingto fixed laws, excluding origination or direction by one intelligentwill.
naturality: Nature; naturalness. [R.]
naturalization: The act or process of naturalizing, esp. of investing an alienwith the rights and privileges of a native or citizen; also, thestate of being naturalized.
naturally: In a natural manner or way; according to the usual course ofthings; spontaneously.
naturalness: The state or quality of being natural; conformity to nature.
nature: To endow with natural qualities. [Obs.]He [God] which natureth every kind. Gower.
natured: Having (such) a nature, temper, or disposition; disposed; --used in composition; as, good-natured, ill-natured, etc.
natureless: Not in accordance with nature; unnatural. [Obs.] Milton.
naturism: The belief or doctrine that attributes everything to nature asa sanative agent.
naturist: One who believes in, or conforms to, the theory of naturism.Boyle.
naturity: The quality or state of being produced by nature. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
naturize: To endow with a nature or qualities; to refer to nature. [Obs.]B. Jonson.
naufrage: Shipwreck; ruin. [Obs.] acon.
naufragous: causing shipwreck. [Obs.] r. Taylor.
naught: In no degree; not at all. Chaucer.To wealth or sovereign power he naught applied. Fairfax.
naughtily: In a naughty manner; wickedly; perversely. Shak.
naughtiness: The quality or state of being naughty; perverseness; badness;wickedness.I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart. 1 Sam. xvii.28.
naughtly: Naughtily; wrongly. [Obs.]because my parents naughtly brought me up. Mir. for Mag.
naughty: Orig., a method of therapeutic treatment administered, esp. forchronic diseases of the curculatory system, at Bad Nauheim, Germany,by G. Schott, consisting in baths in the natural mineral waters ofthat place, which are charged with carbonic acid, and the use of agraduated course of rest, physical exercises, massage, etc.; hence,any similar treatment using waters artificially charged with theessential ingredients of the natural mineral waters of Bad Nauheim.Hence, Nauheim bath, etc.
naumachy: A show or spectacle representing a sea fight; also, a place forsuch exhibitions.
nauplius: A crustacean larva having three pairs of locomotive organs(corresponding to the antennules, antennæ, and mandibles), a medianeye, and little or no segmentation of the body.
nauropometer: An instrument for measuring the amount which a ship heels atsea.
nauscopy: The power or act of discovering ships or land at considerabledistances.
nausea: Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomachaccompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of thestomach; loathing.
nauseant: A substance which produces nausea.
nauseate: To become squeamish; to feel nausea; to turn away with disgust.
nauseation: The act of nauseating, or the state of being nauseated.
nauseative: Causing nausea; nauseous.
nauseous: Causing, or fitted to cause, nausea; sickening; loathsome;disgusting; exciting abhorrence; as, a nauseous drug or medicine.-- Nau"seous*ly, adv.-- Nau"seous*ness, n.The nauseousness of such company disgusts a reasonable man. Dryden.
nautch: An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professionaldancing (or Nautch) girls. [India]
nautic: Nautical.
nautical: Of or pertaining to seamen, to the art of navigation, or toships; as, nautical skill.
nautically: In a nautical manner; with reference to nautical affais.
nautiform: Shaped like the hull of a ship.
nautilite: A fossil nautilus.
nautiloid: Like or pertaining to the nautilus; shaped like a nautilusshell.-- n.
nautilus: The only existing genus of tetrabranchiate cephalopods. Aboutfour species are found living in the tropical Pacific, but many otherspecies are found fossil. The shell is spiral, symmetrical, andchambered, or divided into several cavities by simple curvedpartitions, which are traversed and connected together by acontinuous and nearly central tube or siphuncle. See Tetrabranchiata.
navajoes: A tribe of Indians inhabiting New Mexico and Arizona, allied tothe Apaches. They are now largely engaged in agriculture.
naval: Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or anavy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc.
navals: Naval affairs. [Obs.]
navarch: The commander of a fleet. Mitford.
navarchy: Nautical skill or experience. [Obs.] ir W. Petty.
navarrese: Of or pertaining to Navarre.-- n. sing. & pl.
nave: The middle or body of a church, extending from the transepts tothe principal entrances, or, if there are no transepts, from thechoir to the principal entrance, but not including the aisles.
navel: A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; theumbilicus. See Umbilicus.belly button in humans
navel orange: A type of orange in which the fruit incloses a small secondaryfruit, the rind showing on the exterior a navel-like pit ordepression at the apex. There are several varieties; they are usuallyseedless, or nearly so, and are much grown in California.
navel-string: The umbilical cord.
navelwort: A European perennial succulent herb (Cotyledon umbilicus),having round, peltate leaves with a central depression; -- alsocalled pennywort, and kidneywort.
navew: A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. SeeBrassica. [Writen also naphew.]
navicular: The navicular bone.
navigability: The quality or condition of being navigable; navigableness.
navigable: Capable of being navigated; deep enough and wide enough toafford passage to vessels; as, a navigable river.
navigate: To joirney by water; to go in a vessel or ship; to perform theduties of a navigator; to use the waters as a highway or channel forcommerce or communication; to sail.The Phenicians navigated to the extremities of the Western Ocean.Arbuthnot.
navigator: One who navigates or sails; esp., one who direct the course ofa ship, or one who is skillful in the art of navigation; also, a bookwhich teaches the art of navigation; as, Bowditch's Navigator.
navigerous: Bearing ships; capable of floating vessels. [R.] Blount.
navvy: Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence,a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads,embankments, etc. [Eng.]
navy blue: Prussian blue.
nawab: A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given bycourtesy to other persons of high rank in the East.
nawl: An awl. [Obs.] usser.
nay: To refuse. [Obs.] Holinshed.
nayaur: A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii), native of Nepaul andThibet. It has a dorsal mane and a white ruff beneath the neck.
nayt: To refuse; to deny. [Obs.] "He shall not nayt ne deny his sin."Chaucer.
nayward: The negative side. [R.]Howe'er you lean to the nayward. Shak.
nayword: A byword; a proverb; also, a watchword. [Obs.] hak.
nazarene: One of a sect of Judaizing Christians in the first and secondcenturies, who observed the laws of Moses, and held to certainheresies.
nazarite: A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain fromwine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of lifeand devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time.The word is also used adjectively.
nazariteship: The state of a Nazarite.
nazaritic: Of or pertaining to a Nazarite, or to Nazarites.
nazaritism: The vow and practice of a Nazarite.
naze: A promotory or headland.
nazirite: A Nazarite.
ne: Not; never. [Obs.]He never yet no villany ne said. Chaucer.
ne exeat: A writ to restrain a person from leaving the country, or thejurisdiction of the court. The writ was originally applicable topurposes of state, but is now an ordinary process of courts ofequity, resorted to for the purpose of obtaining bail, or security toabide a decree. Kent.
ne temere: A decree of the Congregation of the Council declaring invalid[so far as the laws of the Roman Catholic Church are concerned] anymarriage of a Roman Catholic, or of a person who has ever been aRoman Catholic, if not contracted before a duty qualified priest (orthe bishop of the diocese) and at least two witnesses. The decree wasissued Aug. 2, 1907, and took effect on Easter Apr. 19, 1908. Thedecree by its terms does not affect mixed marriages (those betweenRoman Catholics and persons of another faith) in Germany.
neaf: See 2d Neif. Shak.
neal: To anneal. [R.] Chaucer.
neanderthaloid: Like, or pertaining to, the Neanderthal skull, or the type ofman it represents.
neap: The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by twoanimals. [U.S.]
neaped: Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it willnot float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped.
neapolitan: Of of pertaining to Maples in Italy.-- n.
near: Adjacent to; close by; not far from; nigh; as, the ship sailednear the land. See the Note under near, a.
near beer: Any of various malt liquors (see Citation).
near-legged: Having the feet so near together that they interfere intraveling. Shak.
nearctic: Of or pertaining to a region of the earth's surface includingall of temperate and arctic North America and Greenland. In thegeographical distribution of animals, this region is marked off asthe habitat certain species.
nearhand: Near; near at hand; closely. [Obs. or Scot.] Bacon.
nearly: In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost.
nearness: The state or quality of being near; -- used in the varioussenses of the adjective.
neat: Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep,and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat'sfoot. Chaucer.Wherein the herds[men] were keeping of their neat. Spenser.The steer, the heifer, and the calf Are all called neat. Shak.A neat and a sheep of his own. Tusser.Neat's-foot, an oil obtained by boiling the feet of neat cattle. Itis used to render leather soft and pliable.
neatherd: A person who has the care of neat cattle; a cowherd. Dryden.
neathouse: A building for the shelter of neat cattle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]Massinger.
neatify: To make neat. [Obs.] olland.
neatly: In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully.
neatness: The state or quality of being neat.
neatress: A woman who takes care of cattle. [R.] Warner.
neb: The nose; the snout; the mouth; the beak of a bird; a nib, asof a pen. [Also written nib.] Shak.
neb-neb: Same as Bablh.
nebalia: A genus of small marine Crustacea, considered the type of adistinct order (Nebaloidea, or Phyllocarida.)
nebula: A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situatedbeyond the solar system among the stars. True nebulæ are gaseous; butvery distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope.
nebular: Of or pertaining to nebulæ; of the nature of, or resembling, anebula. Nebular hypothesis, an hypothesis to explain the process offormation of the stars and planets, presented in various forms byKant, Herschel, Laplace, and others. As formed by Laplace, itsupposed the matter of the solar system to have existed originally inthe form of a vast, diffused, revolving nebula, which, graduallycooling and contracting, threw off, in obedience to mechanical andphysical laws, succesive rings of matter, from which subsequently, bythe same laws, were produced the several planets, satellites, andother bodies of the system. The phrase may indicate any hypothesisaccording to which the stars or the bodies of the solar system havebeen evolved from a widely diffused nebulous form of matter.
nebulated: Clouded with indistinct color markings, as an animal.
nebulation: The condition of being nebulated; also, a clouded, or ill-defined, color mark.
nebule: A little cloud; a cloud. [Obs.]O light without nebule. Old Ballad.
nebulization: The act or process of nebulizing; atomization.
nebulize: To reduce (as a liquid) to a fine spray or vapor; to atomize.
nebulizer: An atomizer.
nebulose: Nebulous; cloudy. Derham.
nebulous: Of, pertaining to, or having the appearance of, a nebula;nebular; cloudlike.-- Neb"u*lous*ly, adv.-- Neb"u*lous*ness, n.
nebuly: A line or a direction composed of successive short curves orwaves supposed to resembe a cloud. See NÉbulÉ
necessarian: An advocate of the doctrine of philosophical necessity; anacessitarian.
necessarianism: The doctrine of philosophical necessity; necessitarianism.Hixley.
necessarily: In a necessary manner; by necessity; unavoidably;indispensably.
necessariness: The quality of being necessary.
necessary: Such things, in respect to infants, lunatics, and marriedwomen, as are requisite for support suitable to station.
necessitarian: Of or pertaining to the doctrine of philosophical necessity inregard to the origin and existence of things, especially as appliedto the actings or choices of the will; -- opposed to libertarian.
necessitarianism: The doctrine of philosophical necessity; the doctrine thatresults follow by invariable sequence from causes, and esp. that thewill is not free, but that human actions and choices resultinevitably from motives; deteminism. M. Arnold.
necessitattion: The act of making necessary, or the state of being madenecessary; compulsion. [R.] bp. Bramhall.
necessitied: In a state of want; necessitous. [Obs.] Shak.
necessity: The negation of freedom in voluntary action; the subjection ofall phenomena, whether material or spiritual, to inevitablecausation; necessitarianism. Of necessity, by necessary consequence;by compulsion, or irresistible power; perforce.
neck: A reduction in size near the end of an object, formed by agroove around it; as, a neck forming the journal of a shaft.
neckar nut: See Nicker nut.
neckband: A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the topof a garment.
neckcloth: A piece of any fabric worn around the neck.
necked: Cracked; -- said of a treenail.
neckerchief: A kerchief for the neck; -- called also neck handkerchief.
necking: Same as Neckmold.
necklace: A rope or chain fitted around the masthead to hold hangingblocks for jibs and stays.
necklaced: Wearing a necklace; marked as with a necklace.The hooded and the necklaced snake. Sir W. Jones.
neckland: A neck of land. [Obs.]
necklet: A necklace. E. Anold.
neckplate: See Gorget, 1 and 2.
necktie: A scarf, band, or kerchief of silk, etc., passing around theneck or collar and tied in front; a bow of silk, etc., fastened infront of the neck.
neckwear: A collective term for cravats, collars, etc. [Colloq. or tradename]
necrobiosis: The death of a part by molecular disintegration and withoutloss of continuity, as in the processes of degeneration and atrophy.Virchow.
necrobiotic: Of or pertaining to necrobiosis; as, a necrobioticmetamorphosis.
necrolatry: The worship of the dead; manes worship. H. Spenser.
necrolite: Same as Necronite.
necrologist: One who gives an account of deaths.
necrology: An account of deaths, or of the dead; a register of deaths; acollection of obituary notices.
necromancer: One who practices necromancy; a sorcerer; a wizard.
necromancy: The art of revealing future events by means of a pretendedcommunication with the dead; the black art; hence, magic in general;conjuration; enchantment. See Black art.This palace standeth in the air, By necromancy placèd there. Drayton.
necromantic: Conjuration. [R.]With all the necromantics of their art. Young.
necronite: Fetid feldspar, a mineral which, when struck, exhales a fetidodor.
necrophagan: Eating carrion.-- n. (Zoöl.)
necrophagous: Of or pertaining to the Necrophaga; eating carrion. SeeNecrophagan.
necrophobia: An exaggerated fear of death or horror of dead bodies.
necrophore: Any one of numerous species of beetles of the genus Necrophorusand allied genera; -- called also burying beetle, carrion beetle,sexton beetle.
necropolis: A city of the dead; a name given by the ancients to theircemeteries, and sometimes applied to modern burial places; agraveyard.
necropsy: A post-mortem examination or inspection; an autopsy. SeeAutopsy.
necrose: To affect with necrosis; to unergo necrosis. Quain.
necrosed: Affected by necrosis; dead; as, a necrosed bone. Dunglison.
necrosis: Mortification or gangrene of bone, or the death of a bone orportion of a bone in mass, as opposed to its death by moleculardisintegration. See Caries.
necrotic: Affected with necrosis; as, necrotic tissue; characterized by,or producing, necrosis; as, a necrotic process.
necrotomy: The dissection of dead bodies; also, excision of necrosed bone.--Nec`ro*tom"ic (#), a. --Nec*rot"o*mist (#), n.
nectar: The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, anydelicious or inspiring beverage.
nectareal: Of or pertaining to a nectary.
nectarean: Resembling nectar; very sweet and pleasant. "nectarean juice."Talfourd.
nectared: Imbued with nectar; mingled with nectar; abounding with nectar.Milton.
nectareous: Of, pertaining to, containing, or resembling nectar; delicious;nectarean. Pope.-- Nec*ta"re*ous*ly, adv.-- Nec*ta"re*ous*ness, n.
nectarial: Of or pertaining to the nectary of a plant.
nectaried: Having a nectary.
nectariferous: Secreting nectar; -- said of blossoms or their parts.
nectarine: Nectareous. [R.] Milton.
nectarize: To mingle or infuse with nectar; to sweeten. [Obs.] Cockeram.
nectarous: Nectareous. Milton.
nectary: That part of a blossom which secretes nectar, usually the baseof the corolla or petals; also, the spur of such flowers as thelarkspur and columbine, whether nectariferous or not. See theIllustration of Nasturtium.
nectocalyx: The cavity of a nectocalyx.
nectostem: That portion of the axis which bears the nectocalyces in theSiphonophora.
nedder: An adder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.
neddy: A pet name for a donkey.
nee: Born; -- a term sometimes used in introducing the name of thefamily to which a married woman belongs by birth; as, Madame deStaël, née Necker.
need: To be in want of; to have cause or occasion for; to lack; torequire, as supply or relief.Other creatures all day long Rove idle, unemployed, and less needrest. Milton.
needer: One who needs anything. Shak.
needily: In a needy condition or manner; necessarily. Chaucer.
neediness: The state or quality of being needy; want; poverty; indigence.
needle: One of the needle-shaped secondary leaves of pine trees. SeePinus.
needle-pointed: Pointed as needles.
needlebook: A book-shaped needlecase, having leaves of cloth into which theneedles are stuck.
needlecase: A case to keep needles.
needleful: As much thread as is used in a needle at one time.
needler: One who makes or uses needles; also, a dealer in needles. PiersPlowman.
needlestone: Natrolite; -- called also needle zeolite.
needlewoman: A woman who does needlework; a seamstress.
needly: Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard. R.D. Blackmore.
needment: Something needed or wanted. pl.
needs: Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must,and equivalent to of need.A man must needs love mauger his head. Chaucer.And he must needs go through Samaria. John iv. 4.He would needs know the cause of his reulse. Sir J. Davies.
needscost: Of necessity. [Obs.] Chaucer.
needsly: Of necessity. [Obs.] Drayton.
needy: A needle. [Obs.] Shak.
neelghau: See Nylghau.
neem tree: An Asiatic name for Melia Azadirachta, and M. Azedarach. SeeMargosa.
neer: Nearer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
neese: To sneeze. [Obs.] [Written also neeze.]
neesing: Sneezing. [Obs.] "By his neesings a light doth shine." Job xli.18.
nef: The nave of a church. Addison.
nefarious: Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociouslyvillainous; execrable; detestably vile.
nefasch: Any fish of the genus Distichodus. Several large speciesinhabit the Nile.
nefast: Wicked. [R.]
negation: Description or definition by denial, exclusion, or exception;statement of what a thing is not, or has not, from which may beinferred what it is or has.
negative: Asserting absence of connection between a subject and apredicate; as, a negative proposition.
negatively: The quality or state of being negative.
negatory: Expressing denial; belonging to negation; negative. Carlyle.
neginoth: Stringed instruments. Dr. W. Smith.To the chief musician on Neginoth. Ps. iv. 9heading).
neglectedness: The state of being neglected.
neglecter: One who neglects. South.
neglectful: Full of neglect; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive;indifferent. Pope.A cold and neglectful countenance. Locke.Though the Romans had no great genius for trade, yet they were notentirely neglectful of it. Arbuthnot.-- Neg*lect"ful*ly, adv.-- Neg*lect"ful*ness, n.
neglectingly: Carelessly; heedlessly. Shak.
neglection: The state of being negligent; negligence. [Obs.] Shak.
neglective: Neglectful. [R.] "Neglective of their own children." Fuller.
negligee: An easy, unceremonious attire; undress; also, a kind of easyrobe or dressing gown worn by women.
negligence: The quality or state of being negligent; lack of due diligenceor care; omission of duty; habitual neglect; heedlessness.
negligent: Apt to neglect; customarily neglectful; characterized bynegligence; careless; heedless; culpably careless; showing lack ofattention; as, disposed in negligent order. "Be thou negligent offame." Swift.He that thinks he can afford to be negligent is not far from beingpoor. Rambler.
negligently: In a negligent manner.
negligible: That may neglicted, disregarded, or left out of consideration.Within very negligible limits of error. Sir J. Herschel.
negoce: Business; occupation. [Obs.] Bentley.
negotiability: The quality of being negotiable or transferable by indorsement.
negotiable: Capable of being negotiated; transferable by assigment orindorsement to another person; as, a negotiable note or bill ofexchange. Negotiable paper, any commercial paper transferable by saleor delivery and indorsement, as bills of exchange, drafts, checks,and promissory notes.
negotiant: A negotiator. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.
negotiator: One who negotiates; a person who treats with others, either asprincipal or agent, in respect to purchase and sale, or publiccompacts.
negotiatory: Of or pertaining to negotiation.
negotiatrix: A woman who negotiates. Miss Edgeworth.
negotiosity: The state of being busy; multitude of business. [Obs.]
negotious: Very busy; attentive to business; active. [R.] D. Rogers.
negotiousness: The state of being busily occupied; activity. [R.] D. Rogers.
negress: A black woman; a female negro.
negrita: A blackish fish (Hypoplectrus nigricans), of the Sea-bassfamily. It is a native of the West Indies and Florida.
negritic: Of or pertaining to negroes; composed of negroes. Keary.
negritos: A degraded Papuan race, inhabiting Luzon and some of the othereast Indian Islands. They resemble negroes, but are smaller in size.They are mostly nomads.
negro: A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very darkpersons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and aredistinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thickprotruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood,wherever found.
negrohead: An inferior commercial variety of India rubber made up intoround masses.
negroloid: See Negroid.
negus: A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice;-- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus.
nehiloth: A term supposed to mean, perforated wind instruments of music,as pipes or flutes. Ps. v. (heading).
nehushtan: A thing of brass; -- the name under which the Israelitesworshiped the brazen serpent made by Moses. 2 Kings xviii. 4.
neigh: The cry of a horse; a whinny.
neighbor: Near to another; adjoining; adjacent; next; neighboring. "Theneighbor cities." Jer. l. 40. "The neighbor room." Shak.
neighboring: Living or being near; adjacent; as, the neighboring nations orcountries.
neighborliness: The quality or state of being neighborly.
neighborly: Apropriate to the relation of neighbors; having frequent orfamiliar intercourse; kind; civil; social; friendly.-- adv.
neighborship: The state of being neighbors. [R.] J. Bailie.
neishout: The mahogany-like wood of the South African tree Pteroxylonutile, the sawdust of which causes violent sneezing (whence thename). Also called sneezewood.
neither: Not either; not the one or the other.Which of them shall I take Both one or neither Neither can beenjoyed, If both remain alive. Shak.He neither loves, Nor either cares for him. Shak.
nelumbo: A genus of great water lilies. The North American species isNelumbo lutea, the Asiatic is the sacred lotus, N. speciosa. [Writtenalso Nelumbium.]
nemaline: Having the form of threads; fibrous.
nemalite: A fibrous variety of brucite.
nematelmia: Same as Nemathelminthes.
nemathecium: A peculiar kind of fructification on certain red algæ,consisting of an external mass of filaments at length separating intotetraspores.
nemato-: . A combining from Gr. nhema, nhematos, a thread.
nematoblast: A spermatocyte or spermoblast.
nematocalyx: One of a peculiar kind of cups, or calicles, found uponhydroids of the family Plumularidæ. They contain nematocysts. SeePlumularia.
nematocera: A suborder of dipterous insects, having long antennæ, as themosquito, gnat, and crane fly; -- called also Nemocera.
nematocyst: A lasso cell, or thread cell. See Lasso cell, under Lasso.
nematode: Same as Nematoid.
nematogene: One of the dimorphic forms of the species of Dicyemata, whichproduced vermiform embryos; -- opposed to Ant
nematognath: one of the Nematognathi.
nematognathi: An order of fishes having barbels on the jaws. It includes thecatfishes, or siluroids. See Siluroid.
nematoid: of or pertaining to the Nematoidea.-- n.
nematoidea: An order of worms, having a long, round, and generally smoothbody; the roundworms. they are mostly parasites. Called alsoNematodea, and Nematoda.
nematoidean: Nematoid.
nematophora: Same as Cælenterata.
nemean: Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greekscelebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion.
nemertean: Of or pertaining to the Nemertina.-- n.
nemertes: A genus of nemertina.
nemertian: Nemertean.
nemertid: Nemertean.
nemertida: Nemertina.
nemertina: An order of helminths usually having a long, slender, smooth,often bright-colored body, covered with minute vibrating cilia; --called also Nemertea, Nemertida, and Rhynchocæla.
nemesis: The goddess of retribution or vengeance; hence, retributivejustice personified; divine vengeance.This is that ancient doctrine of nemesis who keeps watch in theuniverse, and lets no offense go unchastised. Emerson.
nemophilist: One who is fond of forest or forest scenery; a haunter of thewoods. [R.]
nemophily: Fondness for forest scenery; love of the woods. [R.]
nemoral: Of or pertaining to a wood or grove. [R.]
nemorous: Woody. [R.]Paradise itself was but a kind of nemorous temple. Evelyn.
nempne: To name or call. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nempt: of Nempne. Called; named. [Obs.]
nems: The ichneumon.
nenia: A funeral song; an elegy.
nenuphar: The great white water lily of Europe; the Nymphæa alba.
neo-: A prefix meaning new, recent, late; and in chemistrydesignating specifically that variety of metameric hydrocarbonswhich, when the name was applied, had been recently classified, andin which at least one carbon atom in connected directly with fourother carbon atoms; -- contrasted with normal and iso-; as,neopentane; the neoparaffins. Also used adjectively.
neo-christianity: Rationalism.
neo-darwinism: The theory which holds natural selection, as explained byDarwin, to be the chief factor in the evolution of plants andanimals, and denies the inheritance of acquired characters; -- esp.opposed to Neo-Lamarckism. Weismannism is an example of extreme Neo-Darwinism. -- Ne`o-Dar*win"i*an, a. & n.
neo-greek: A member of a body of French painters (F. les néo-Grecs) of themiddle 19th century. The term is rather one applied by outsiders tocertain artists of grave and refined style, such as Hamon and Aubert,than a name adopted by the artists themselves.
neo-hebraic: The modern Hebrew language.
neo-hegelian: An adherent of Neo-Hegelianism.
neo-hegelianism: The philosophy of a school of British and American idealistswho follow Hegel in dialectical or logical method and in the generaloutcome of their doctrine. The founders and leaders of Neo-Hegelianism include
neo-hellenic: Same as Romaic.
neo-hellenism: Hellenism as surviving or revival in modern times; the practiceor pursuit of ancient Greek ideals in modern life, art, orliterature, as in the Renaissance.
neo-kantian: An adherent of Neo-Kantianism.
neo-kantianism: The philosophy of modern thinkers who follow Kant in hisgeneral theory of knowledge, esp. of a group of German philosophersincluding F. A. Lange, H. Cohen, Paul Natorp, and others.
neo-lamarckism: Lamarckism as revived, modified, and expounded by recentbiologists, esp. as maintaining that the offspring inheritscharacters acquired by the parent from change of environment, use ordisuse of parts, etc.; -- opposed of Neo-Darwinism (which see,above). -- Ne`o-La*marck"i*an, a. & n.
neo-latin: Applied to the Romance languages, as being mostly of Latinorigin.
neo-malthusian: Designating, or pertaining to, a group of modern economists whohold to the Malthusianism doctrine that permanent betterment of thegeneral standard of living is impossible without decrease ofcompetition by limitation of the number of births. -- Ne`o-Mal*thu"sian, Ne`o-Mal*thu"sian*ism, n.
neo-scholastic: Of or pert. to Neo-Scholasticism.
neo-scholasticism: The modern revival of the Scholastic philosophy, esp. of thatof Thomas Aquinas, with critical revision to suit the exigencies ofthe general advance in learning. The Neo-Scholastic movement receiveda great impetus from Leo XIII.'s interest in it.
neocarida: The modern, or true, Crustacea, as distinguished from theMerostomata.
neocene: More recent than the Eocene, that is, including both theMiocene and Pliocene divisions of the Tertiary.
neoclassic: Belonging to, or designating, the modern revival of classical,esp. Greco-Roman, taste and manner of work in architecture, etc.
neoclassic architecture: All that architecture which, since the beginning of the ItalianRenaissance, about 1420, has been designed with deliberate imitationof Greco-Roman buildings.
neocomian: A term applied to the lowest deposits of the Cretaceous orchalk formation of Europe, being the lower greensand.
neocosmic: of or pertaining to the universe in its present state;specifically, pertaining to the races of men known to history.
neocracy: Government by new or inexperienced hands; upstart rule; raw oruntried officials.
neocriticism: The form of Neo-Kantianism developed by French idealists,following C. Renouvier.  It rejects the noumena of Kant, restrictingknowledge to phenomena as constituted by a priori categories.
neodamode: In ancient Sparta, one of those Helots who were freed by thestate in reward for military service. Milford.
neodymium: An elementary substance which forms one of the constituents ofdidymium. Symbol Nd. Atomic weight 140.8.
neogaean: Of or pertaining to the New World, or Western Hemisphere.
neogamist: A person recently married.
neogen: An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper,zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, andbismuth. Ure.
neogrammarian: One of a group of philologists who apply phonetic laws morewidely and strictly than was formerly done, and who maintain thatthese laws admit of no real exceptions. --Ne`o*gram*mat"ic*al (#), a.
neography: A new method or system of writing.
neolithic: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an era characterized bylate remains in stone.The Neolithic era includes the latter half of the "Stone age;" thehuman relics which belong to it are associated with the remains ofanimals not yet extinct. The kitchen middens of Denmark, the lakedwellings of Switzerland, and the stockaded islands, or "crannogs,"of the British Isles, belong to this era. Lubbock.
neologian: Neologic; neological.
neologianism: Neologism.
neologically: , adv. In a neological manner.
neologist: of or pertaining to neology; neological.
neologization: The act or process of neologizing.
neomenia: The time of the new moon; the beginning of the month in thelunar calendar.
neomenoidea: A division of vermiform gastropod mollusks, without a shell,belonging to the Isopleura.
neomorph: A structure, part, or organ developed independently, that is,not derived from a similar structure, part, or organ, in a preexisting form.
neonism: Neologism.
neonomian: One who advocates adheres to new laws; esp. one who holds orbelieves that the gospel is a new law.
neonomianism: The doctrines or belief of the neonomians.
neopaganism: Revived or new paganism.
neoplasia: Growth or development of new material; neoplasty.
neoplasm: A new formation or tissue, the product of morbid action.
neoplastic: of or pertaining to neoplasty, or neoplasia.
neoplasty: Restoration of a part by granulation, adhesive inflammation, orautoplasty.
neoplatonic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Neoplatonism or theNeoplatonists.
neoplatonician: A neoplatonist.
neoplatonism: A pantheistic eclectic school of philosophy, of which Plotinuswas the chief (A. D. 205-270), and which sought to reconcile thePlatonic and Aristotelian systems with Oriental theosophy. It tendedto mysticism and theurgy, and was the last product of Greekphilosophy.
neoplatonist: One who held to Neoplatonism; a member of the Neoplatonicschool.
neorama: A panorama of the interior of a building, seen from within.
neossine: The substance constituting the edible bird's nest.
neossology: The study of young birds.
neoteric: One of modern times; a modern.
neoterically: Recently; newly.
neoterism: An innovation or novelty; a neoteric word or phrase.
neoterist: One ho introduces new word Fitzed Hall.
neoterize: To innovate; to coin or introduce new words.Freely as we of the nineteenth century neoterize. fized. Hall.
neotropical: Belonging to, or designating, a region of the earth's surfacewhich comprises most of South America, the Antilles, and tropicalNorth America.
neozoic: More recent than the Paleozoic, -- that is, including theMesozoic and Cenozoic.
nep: Catnip.
nepa: A genus of aquatic hemipterus insects. The species feed uponother insects and are noted for their voracity; -- called alsoscorpion bug and water scorpion.
nepaulese: Of or pertaining to Nepaul, a kingdom in Northern Hindostan.-- n. sing. & pl.
nepenthe: A drug used by the ancients to give relief from pain andsorrow; -- by some supposed to have been opium or hasheesh. Hence,anything soothing and comforting.Lulled with the sweet nepenthe of a court. Pope.Quaff, O quaff this kind nepenthe. Poe.
nepenthes: A genus of climbing plants found in India, Malaya, etc., whichhave the leaves prolonged into a kind of stout tendril terminating ina pitcherlike appendage, whence the plants are often called pitcherplants and monkey-cups. There are about thirty species, of which thebest known is Nepenthes distillatoria. See Pitcher plant.
nepeta: A genus of labiate plants, including the catnip and ground ivy.
nephalism: Total abstinence from spirituous liquor.
nephalist: One who advocates or practices nephalism.
nephelodometer: An instrument for reckoning the distances or velocities ofclouds.
nephelometer: An instrument for measuring or registering the amount ofcloudiness.
nephilim: Giants. Gen. vi. 4. Num. xiii. 33.
nephoscope: An instrument for observing the clouds and their velocity.
nephridial: of or pertaining to a nephridium.
nephridium: A segmental tubule; one of the tubules of the primitiveurinogenital organs; a segmental organ. See Illust. under Loeven'slarva.
nephrite: A hard compact mineral, of a dark green color, formerly worn asa remedy for diseases of the kidneys, whence its name; kidney stone;a kind of jade. See Jade.
nephritic: A medicine adapted to relieve or cure disease of the kidneys.
nephritis: An inflammation of the kidneys.
nephrolithic: of or pertaining to gravel, or renal calculi. Dunglison.
nephrology: A treatise on, or the science which treats of, the kidneys, andtheir structure and functions.
nephrostome: The funnelshaped opening of a nephridium into the body cavity.
nephrotomy: Extraction of stone from the kidney by cutting.
nepotal: Of or relating to a nephew.
nepotic: Of or pertaining to npotism.The nepotic ambition of the ruling pontiff. Milman.
nepotism: Undue attachment to relations; favoritism shown to members ofone's family; bestowal of patronage in consideration of relationship,rather than of merit or of legal claim.From nepotism Alexander V. was safe; for he was without kindred orrelatives. But there was another perhaps more fatal nepotism, whichturned the tide of popularity against him -- the nepotism of hisorder. Milman.
nepotist: One who practices nepotism.
neptune: The son of Saturn and Ops, the god of the waters, especially ofthe sea. He is represented as bearing a trident for a scepter.
neptunian: Formed by water or aqueous solution; as, Neptunian rocks.Neptunian races (Ethnol.), the Malay and Polynesian races.-- Neptunian theory (Geol.), the theory of Werner, which referredthe formation of all rocks and strata to the agency of water; --opposed to the Plutonic theory.
neptunicentric: As seen from Neptune, or having Neptune as a center; as,Neptunicentric longitude or force.
neptunium: A new metallic element, of doubtful genuineness and uncertainindentification, said to exist in certain minerals, as columbite.Hermann.
ner: nearer. [Obs.] See Nerre.
nere: Were not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nereid: A sea nymph, one of the daughters of Nereus, who wereattendants upon Neptune, and were represented as riding on seahorses, sometimes with the human form entire, and sometimes with thetail of a fish.
nereidian: Any annelid resembling Nereis, or of the family Lycoridæ orallied families.
nereis: A Nereid. See Nereid.
nereites: Fossil tracks of annelids.
nereocystis: A genus of gigantic seaweeds.
nerfling: The id.
nerita: A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates.
nerite: Any mollusk of the genus Nerita.
neritina: A genus including numerous species of shells resembling Neritain form. They mostly inhabit brackish water, and are often delicatelytinted.
nerka: The most important salmon of Alaska (Oncorhinchus nerka),ascending in spring most rivers and lakes from Alaska to Oregon,Washington, and Idaho; --called also red salmon, redfish, blueback,and sawqui.
nero: A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty;hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant.-- Ne*ro"ni*an, a.
nero-antico: A beautiful black marble found in fragments among Roman ruins,and usually thought to have come from ancient Laconia.
neroli: An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers ofthe orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc.Neroli camphor (Chem.), a white crystalline waxy substance, tastelessand odorless, obtained from beroli oil; -- called also auradin.
nerre: Nearer. [Obs.] [Written also neer, ner.] Chaucer. Never theneer, never the nearer; no nearer. [Obs.]
nervate: Nerved.
nervation: The arrangement of nerves and veins, especially those ofleaves; neuration.The outlines of the fronds of ferns, and their nervation, are frailcharacters if employed alone for the determination of existinggenera. J. D. Hooker.
nerve: One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with theaccompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nervecenters and various parts of the animal body.
nerve-shaken: Affected by a tremor, or by a nervous disease; weakened;overcome by some violent influence or sensation; shoked.
nerved: Having nerves, or simple and parallel ribs or veins. Gray.
nervelessness: The state of being nerveless.
nervimotion: The movement caused in the sensory organs by external agentsand transmitted to the muscles by the nerves. Dunglison.
nervimotor: Any agent capable of causing nervimotion. Dunglison.
nervine: Having the quality of acting upon or affecting the nerves;quieting nervous excitement.-- n.
nervomuscular: Of or pertaining to both nerves and muscles; of the nature ofnerves and muscles; as, nervomuscular energy.
nervose: Same as Nerved.
nervosity: Nervousness. [R.]
nervously: In a nervous manner.
nervousness: State or quality of being nervous.
nervure: One of the nerves of leaves.
nervy: Strong; sinewy. "His nervy knees." Keats.
nescience: Want of knowledge; ignorance; agnosticism.God fetched it about for me, in that absence and nescience of mine.Bp. Hall.
nese: Nose. [Obs.] Piers plowman.
nesh: Soft; tender; delicate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
ness: A promontory; a cape; a headland. Hakluyt.
nesslerize: To treat or test, as a liquid, with a solution of mercuriciodide in potassium iodide and potassium hydroxide, which is calledNessler's solution or Nessler's test, and is used to detect thepresence of ammonia.
nest: An aggregated mass of any ore or mineral, in an isolated state,within a rock.
nestful: As much or many as will fill a nest.
nestle: To house, as in a nest.
nestling: Newly hatched; being yet in the nest.
nestor: A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua,allied to the cockatoos. See Kaka.
nestorian: An adherent of Nestorius, patriarch of Constantinople to thefifth century, who has condemned as a heretic for maintaining thatthe divine and the human natures were not merged into one nature inChrist (who was God in man), and, hence, that it was improper to callMary the mother of Christ; also, one of the sect established by thefollowers of Nestorius in Persia, india, and other Orientalcountries, and still in existence. opposed to Ant
nestorianism: The doctrines of the nestorian Christians, or of Nestorius.
net: A figure made up of a large number of straight lines or curves,which are connected at certain points and related to each other bysome specified law.
net-veined: Having veins, or nerves, reticulated or netted; as, a net-veined wing or leaf.
netfish: An astrophyton.
nether: Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part;having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under;-- opposed to upper.'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires. Milton.This darksome nether world her light Doth dim with horror anddeformity. Spenser.All my nether shape thus grew transformed. Milton.
nethermore: Lower, nether. [Obs.] Holland.
nethermost: Lowest; as, the nethermost abyss. Milton.
nethinim: Servants of the priests and Levites in the menial servicesabout the tabernacle and temple.
netify: To render neat; to clean; to put in order. [R.] Chapman.
netsuke: In Japanese costume and decorative art, a small object carvedin wood, ivory, bone, or horn, or wrought in metal, and pierced withholes for cords by which it is connected, for convenience, with theinro, the smoking pouch (tabako-ire), and similar objects carried inthe girdle. It is now much used on purses sold in Europe and America.
netting: A network of ropes used for various purposes, as for holdingthe hammocks when not in use, also for stowing sails, and forhoisting from the gunwale to the rigging to hinder an enemy fromboarding. Totten. Netting needle, a kind of slender shuttle used innetting. See Needle, n., 3.
nettle: A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairscontaining a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urticagracitis is common in the Northern, and U. chamædryoides in theSouthern, United States. the common European species, U. urens and U.dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. U. pilulifera isthe Roman nettle of England.
nettlebird: the European whitethroat. [Prov. Eng.]
nettler: One who nettles. [R.] Milton.
nettling: Stinging; irritating. Nettling cell (Zoöl.), a lasso cell. Seeunder Lasso.
netty: Like a net, or network; netted. [R.]
neufchatel: A kind of soft sweet-milk cheese; -- so called from Neufchâtel-en-Bray in France.
neurad: Toward the neural side; -- opposed to hæmad.
neural: relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situatedin the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal,axis; -- opposed to hemal. As applied to vertebrates, neural is thesame as dorsal; as applied to invertebrates it is usually the same asventral. Cf. Hemal. Neural arch (Anat.), the cartilaginous or bonyarch on the dorsal side of the centrum of the vertebra in a segmentof the spinal skeleton, usually inclosing a segment of the spinalcord.
neuralgia: A disease, the chief symptom of which is a very acute pain,exacerbating or intermitting, which follows the course of a nervousbranch, extends to its ramifications, and seems therefore to beseated in the nerve. It seems to be independent of any structurallesion. Dunglison.
neuralgic: of or pertaining to, or having the character of, neuralgia; as,a neuralgic headache.
neuralgy: Neuralgia.
neurapophysial: of or pertaining to a neurapophysis.
neurasthenia: A condition of nervous debility supposed to be dependent uponimpairment in the functions of the spinal cord.
neuration: The arrangement or distribution of nerves, as in the leaves ofa plant or the wings of an insect; nervation.
neuraxis: See Axis cylinder, under Axis.
neurenteric: Of or pertaining to both the neuron and the enteron; as, theneurenteric canal, which, in embroys of many vertebrates, connectsthe medullary tube and the primitive intestine. See Illust. ofEctoderm.
neuridin: a nontoxic base, C5H14N2, found in the putrescent matters offlesh, fish, decaying cheese, etc.
neurility: The special properties and functions of the nerves; thatcapacity for transmitting a stimulus which belongs to nerves. G. H.Lewes.
neurine: A poisonous organic base (a ptomaine) formed in thedecomposition of protagon with boiling baryta water, and in theputrefraction of proteid matter. It was for a long time consideredidentical with choline, a crystalline body originally obtained frombile. Chemically, however, choline is oxyethyl-trimethyl-ammoniumhydroxide, while neurine is vinyl-trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide.[Written also neurin.]
neurism: Nerve force. See Vital force, under Vital.
neuritis: Inflammation of a nerve.
neuro-: A combining denoting a nerve, of or pertaining to a nerve orthe nervous system.
neuro-central: Between the neural arch and the centrum of a vertebra; as, theneurocentral suture. Huxley.
neuro-epidermal: Pertaining to, or giving rise to, the central nervous systemand epiderms; as, the neuroepidermal, or epiblastic, layer of theblastoderm.
neurocity: Nerve force.
neurocord: A cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above theventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm.-- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.
neuroglia: The delicate connective tissue framework which supports thenervous matter and blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord.
neurography: A description of the nerves. Dunglison.
neurokeratin: A substance, resembling keratin, present in nerve tissue, as inthe sheath of the axis cylinder of medullated nerve fibers. Likekeratin it resists the action of most chemical agents, and bydecomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and tyrosin.
neurological: Of or pertaining to neurolgy.
neurologist: One who is versed in neurology; also, one skilled in thetreatment of nervous diseases.
neurology: The branch of science which treats of the nervous system.
neuroma: A tumor developed on, or connected with, a nerve, esp. oneconsisting of new-formed nerve fibers.
neuromere: A metameric segment of the cerebro-spinal nervous system.
neuromuscular: Nervomuscular.
neuron: The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis;myelencephalon. B. G. Wilder.
neuropathic: Of or pertaining to neuropathy; of the nature of, or sufferingfrom, nervous disease.
neuropathy: An affection of the nervous system or of a nerve.
neuropod: A neuropodous animal. G. Rolleston.
neuropodium: The ventral lobe or branch of a parapodium.
neuropodous: Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the neural side, as inmost invertebrates; -- opposed to Ant
neuropore: An opening at either end of the embryonic neural canal.
neuropter: One of the Neuroptera.
neuroptera: An order of hexapod insects having two pairs of large,membranous, net-veined wings. The mouth organs are adapted forchewing. They feed upon other insects, and undergo a completemetamorphosis. The ant-lion, hellgamite, and lacewing fly areexamples. Formerly, the name was given to a much more extensivegroup, including the true Neuroptera and the Pseudoneuroptera.
neuropteral: Of or pertaining to the Neuroptera.
neuropteran: A neuropter.
neuropteris: An extensive genus of fossil ferns, of which species have beenfound from the Devonian to the Triassic formation.
neuropterous: Neuropteral.
neurosensiferous: Pertaining to, or forming, both nerves and sense organs.
neurosis: A functional nervous affection or disease, that is, a diseaseof the nerves without any appreciable change of nerve structure.
neuroskeletal: Of or pertaining to the neuroskeleton. [R.] Owen.
neuroskeleton: The deep-seated parts of the vertebrate skeleton which arerelation with the nervous axis and locomation. Owen.
neurospast: A puppet. [R.] Dr. H. More.
neurotic: Any toxic agent whose action is mainly directed to the greatnerve centers.
neurotome: A neuromere.
neurotomical: Of or pertaining to neurotomy.
neurotomist: One who skilled in or practices neurotomy.
neurotomy: The division of a nerve, for the relief of neuralgia, or forother purposes. Dunglison.
neurula: An embryo or certain invertebrates in the stage when theprimitive band is first developed.
neuter: Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones;sexless. See Neuter, n., 3.
neutral: Neuter. See Neuter, a., 3.
neutralist: A neutral; one who professes or practices neutrality. Milman.
neutrality: The quality or state of being neutral. See Neutral, a., 4.
neutralization: The act or process by which an acid and a base are combined insuch proportions that the resulting compound is neutral. See Neutral,a., 4.
neutralize: To render inert or imperceptible the peculiar affinities of, asa chemical substance; to destroy the effect of; as, to neutralize anacid with a base.
neutralizer: One who, or that which, neutralizes; that which destroys,disguises, or renders inert the peculiar properties of a body.
neutrally: In a neutral manner; without taking part with either side;indifferently.
neuvaines: Prayers offered up for nine successive days.
nevadite: A grantitoid variety of rhyolite, common in Nevada.
neve: The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow.See Galcier.
neven: To name; to mention; to utter. [Obs.]As oft I heard my lord them neven. Chaucer.
nevermore: Never again; at no time hereafter. Testament of Love. Tyndale.Where springtime of the Hesperides Begins, but endeth nevermore.Longfellow.
neverthelater: Nevertheless. [Obs.]
nevertheless: Not the less; notwithstanding; in spite of that; yet.No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous;nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit ofrighteousness. Heb. xii. 11.
nevew: Nephew. [Obs.] haucer.
new: Newly; recently. Chaucer.
new thought: Any form of belief in mental healing other than (1) ChristianScience and (2) hypnotism or psychotherapy. Its central principle isaffirmative thought, or suggestion, employed with the conviction thatman produces changes in his health, his finances, and his life by theadoption of a favorable mental attitude. AS a therapeutic doctrine itstands for silent and absent mental treatment, and the theory thatall diseases are mental in origin. As a cult it has its unifying ideathe inculcation of workable optimism in contrast with the "oldthought" of sin, evil, predestination, and pessimistic resignation.The term is essentially synonymous with the term High Thought, usedin England.
new zealand: A group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean. New Zealandflax. (a) (Bot.) A tall, liliaceous herb (Phormium tenax), havingvery long, sword-shaped, distichous leaves which furnish a fine,strong fiber very valuable for cordage and the like. (b) The fiberitself.-- New Zealand tea (Bot.), a myrtaceous shrub (Leptospermumscoparium) of New Zealand and Australia, the leaves of which are usedas a substitute for tea.
new-model: To remodel.
new-year: Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, the commencement of theyear; as, New-year gifts or odes.
newborn: Recently born. Shak.
newcome: Recently come.
newcomer: One who has lately come.
newel: A novelty; a new thing. [Obs.] Spenser.
newfangle: Eager for novelties; desirous of changing. [Obs.]So newfangel be they of their meat. Chaucer.
newfangledness: Affectation of, or fondness for, novelty; vain or affectedfashion or form.
newfangleness: Newfangledness. [Obs.] Chaucer.Proud newfangleness in their apparel. Robynson (More's Utopia).
newfanglist: One who is eager for novelties or desirous of change. [Obs.]Tooker.
newfangly: In a newfangled manner; with eagerness for novelty. [Obs.] SirT. More.
newfashioned: Made in a new form, or lately come into fashion.
newing: Yeast; barm. [prov. Eng.]
newish: Somewhat new; nearly new. Bacon.
newmarket: A long, closely fitting cloak.
newness: The quality or state of being new; as, the newness of a system;the newness of a scene; newness of life.
news-book: A newspaper. [Obs.]
news-letter: A circular letter, written or printed for the purpose ofdisseminating news. This was the name given to the earliest Englishnewspapers.
news-vnder: A seller of newspapers.
news-writer: One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters. Macaulay.
newsboy: A boy who distributes or sells newspaper.
newsmonger: One who deals in news; one who is active in hearing and tellingnews.
newspaper: A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals,for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions,etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements,proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements, etc.
newsroom: A room where news is collected and disseminated, or periodicalssold; a reading room supplied with newspapers, magazines, etc.
newsy: Full of news; abounding in information as to current events.[Colloq.]
newt: Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. Thecommon British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus) andthe smooth newt (Lophinus punctatus). In America, Diemictylusviridescens is one of the most abundant species.
newtonian: Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries.Newtonian philosophy, the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton; -- appliedto the doctrine of the universe as expounded in Newton's "Principia,"to the modern or experimental philosophy (as opposed to the theoriesof Descartes and others), and, most frequently, to the mathematicaltheory of universal gravitation.-- Newtonian telescope (Astron.), a reflecting telescope, in whichrays from the large speculum are received by a plane mirror placeddiagonally in the axis, and near the open end of the tube, and thrownat right angles toward one side of the tube, where the image isformed and viewed through the eyeplace.-- Newtonian theory of light. See Note under Light.
nexible: That may be knit together. [R.]
next: In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding;as, this man follows next.
nexus: Connection; tie.Man is doubtless one by some subtile nexus ... extending from thenew-born infant to the superannuated dotard. De Quincey.
nez perces: A tribe of Indians, mostly inhabiting Idaho.
ngina: The gorilla.
niagara period: A subdivision or the American Upper Silurian system, embracingthe Medina, Clinton, and Niagara epoch. The rocks of the Niagaraepoch, mostly limestones, are extensively distributed, and at NiagaraFalls consist of about eighty feet of shale supporting a greaterthickness of limestone, which is gradually undermined by the removalof the shale. See Chart of Geology.
nias: A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. [Obs.]
nib: The bill or beak of a bird; the neb.
nibbed: Having a nib or point.
nibble: To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; toeat slowly or in small bits.Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak.
nibbler: One who, or that which, nibbles.
nibblingly: In a nibbling manner; cautiously.
nibelungenlied: A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containingtraditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila(called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing toheathen times.
nibelungs: In German mythology, the children of the mist, a race of dwarfsor demonic beings, the original possessors of the famous hoard andring won by Siegfrid; also, the Burgundian kings in theNibelungenlied.
niblick: A kind of golf stick used to lift the ball out of holes, ruts,etc.
nicagua: The laughing falcon. See under laughing.
nicaragua wood: Brazil wood.
niccolite: A mineral of a copper-red color and metallic luster; anarsenide of nickel; -- called also coppernickel, kupfernickel.
nicely: In a nice manner.
nicene: Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to theecumenial council held there A. D. 325. Nicene Creed (, a summary ofChristian faith, composed and adopted by the Council of Nice, againstArianism, A. D. 325, altered and confirmed by the Council ofConstantinople, A. D. 381, and by subsequent councils.
niceness: Quality or state of being nice.
nicery: Nicety. [Colloq.] Chapman.
niche: A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness ofa wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, anysimilar position, literal or figurative.Images defended from the injuries of the weather by niches of stonewherein they are placed. Evelun.
niched: Placed in a niche. "Those niched shapes of noble mold."Tennyson.
nick: An evil spirit of the waters. Old Nick, the evil one; thedevil. [Colloq.]
nickel: A bright silver-white metallic element. It is of the irongroup, and is hard, malleable, and ductile. It occurs combined withsulphur in millerite, with arsenic in the mineral niccolite, and witharsenic and sulphur in nickel glance. Symbol Ni. Atomic weight 58.6.
nickel steel: A kind of cast steel containing nickel, which greatly increasesits strength. It is used for armor plate, bicycle tubing, propellershafts, etc.
nickelic: Pertaining to, or containing, nickel; specifically, designatingcompounds in which, as contrasted with the nickelous compounds, themetal has a higher valence; as nickelic oxide.
nickeliferous: Containing nickel; as, nickelferous iron.
nickeline: An alloy of nickel, a variety of German silver.
nickelodeon: A place of entertainment, as for moving picture exhibition,charging a fee or admission price of five cents. [U. S.]
nickelous: Of, pertaining to, or designating, those compounds of nickel inwhich, as contrasted with the nickelic compounds, the metal has alower valence; as, nickelous oxide. Frankland.
nicker nut: A rounded seed, rather smaller than a nutmeg, having a hardsmooth shell, and a yellowish or bluish color. The seeds grow in theprickly pods of tropical, woody climbers of the genus Cæsalpinia. C.Bonduc has yellowish seeds; C.Bonducella, bluish gray. [Spelt alsoneckar nut, nickar nut.]
nicker tree: The plant producing nicker nuts. [Written also neckar tree andnickar tree.]
nicking: Small coal produced in making the nicking.
nickle: The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nickerpecker.
nicknack: See Knickknack.
nicknackery: See Knickknackery.
nickname: A name given in contempt, derision, or sportive familiarity; afamiliar or an opprobrious appellation.
nicolaitan: One of certain corrupt persons in the early church at Ephesus,who are censured in rev. ii. 6, 15.
nicotian: Tobacco. [R.] B. Jonson.
nicotiana: A genus of American and Asiatic solanaceous herbs, with viscidfoliage and funnel-shaped blossoms. Several species yield tobacco.See Tobacco.
nicotianine: A white waxy substance having a hot, bitter taste, extractedfrom tobacco leaves and called also tobacco camphor.
nicotic: Nicotinic.
nicotidine: A complex, oily, nitrogenous base, isomeric with nicotine, andobtained by the reduction of certain derivatives of the pyridinegroup.
nicotine: An alkaloid which is the active principle of tobacco. It is acolorless, transparent, oily liquid, having an acrid odor, and anacrid burning taste. It is intensely poisonous. Ure.
nicotinic: Pertaining to, or derived from, nicotine; nicotic; -- usedspecifically to designate an acid related to pyridine, obtained bythe oxidation of nicotine, and called nicotinic acid.
nicotinism: The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of tobacco.
nictate: To wink; to nictitate.
nictation: the act of winking; nictitation.
nictitate: To wink; to nictate. Nictitating membrance (Anat.), a thinmembrance, found in many animals at the inner angle, or beneath thelower lid, of the eye, and capable of being drawn across the eyeball;the third eyelid; the haw.
nictitation: The act of winking.
nidamental: of, pertaining to, or baring, eggs or egg capsules; as, thenidament capsules of certain gastropods; nidamental glands. SeeIllust. of Dibranchiata.
nidary: A collection of nests. [R.] velyn.
nide: A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants. [Obs.]
nidering: Infamous; dastardly. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott.
nidgery: A trifle; a piece of foolery. [Obs.] Skinner.
nidget: A fool; an idiot, a coward. [Obs.] Camden.
nidificate: To make a nest.Where are the fishes which nidificated in trees Lowell.
nidification: The act or process of building a nest.
niding: A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium. [Obs.]He is worthy to be called a niding. Howell.
nidor: Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
nidorose: Nidorous. [R.] Arbuthnot.
nidorous: Resembling the smell or taste of roast meat, or of corruptanimal matter. [R.]
nidulant: Lying loose in pulp or cotton within a berry or pericarp, as ina nest.
nidulate: To make a nest, as a bird. [R.] Cockeram.
nidulation: The time of remaining in the nest. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
nidulite: A Silurian fossil, formerly supposed to consist of eggs.
nidus: A nest
nief: See Neif, the fist.
niellist: One who practices the style of ornamentation called niello.
niello: A process, now no longer used, invented by J. N. Niepce, aFrench chemist, in 1829. It depends upon the action of light inrendering a thin layer of bitumen, with which the plate is coated,insoluble.
nifle: A trifle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
niggard: A person meanly close and covetous; one who spends grudgingly;a stingy, parsimonous fellow; a miser. Chaucer.A penurious niggard of his wealth. Milton.Be niggards of advice on no pretense. Pope.
niggardise: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Spenser.
niggardish: Somewhat niggard.
niggardliness: The quality or state of being niggard; meanness in giving orspending; parsimony; stinginess.Niggardliness is not good husbandry. Addison.
niggardly: Meanly covetous or avarcious in dealing with others; stingy;niggard.Where the owner of the house will be bountiful, it is not for thesteward to be niggardly. Bp. Hall.
niggardness: Niggardliness. Sir P. Sidney.
niggardous: Niggardly. [Obs.]Covetous gathering and niggardous keeping. Sir T. More.
niggardship: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
niggardy: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nigged: Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone.
nigger: A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation.
niggerhead: A strong black chewing tobacco, usually in twisted plug form;negro head.
niggish: Niggardly. [Obs.]
niggle: To trifle with; to deceive; to mock. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
niggler: One who niggles.
niggling: Finicky or pottering work; specif. (Fine Arts),
nigh: To draw nigh (to); to approach; to come near. [Obs.] Wyclif(Matt. iii. 2).
nighly: In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within alittle; almost. [Obs.]A cube and a sphere ... nighly of the same bigness. Locke.
nighness: The quality or state of being nigh. [R.] "Nighness of blood."Holished.
night terrors: A sudden awkening associated with a sensation of terror,occurring in children, esp. those of unstable nervous constitution.
night-blooming: Blooming in the night. Night-blooming cereus. (Bot.) See Noteunder Cereus.
night-eyed: Capable of seeing at night; sharp-eyed. "Your night-eyedTiberius." B. Jonson.
night-faring: Going or traveling in the night. Gay.
nightdress: A nightgown.
nightertale: period of night; nighttime. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nightfall: The close of the day. Swift.
nightgown: A loose gown used for undress; also, a gown used for a sleepinggarnment.
nightingale: A small, plain, brown and gray European song bird (Luscinialuscinia). It sings at night, and is celebrated for the sweetness ofits song.
nightish: Of or pertaining to night.
nightjar: A goatsucker, esp. the European species. See Illust. ofGoatsucker.
nightless: Having no night.
nightlong: Lasting all night.
nightly: Of or pertaining to the night, or to every night; happening ordone by night, or every night; as, nightly shades; he kept nightlyvigils.
nightman: One whose business is emptying privies by night.
nightshade: A common name of many species of the genus Solanum, given esp.to the Solanum nigrum, or black nightshade, a low, branching weedwith small white flowers and black berries reputed to be poisonous.Deadly nightshade. Same as Belladonna (a).-- Enchanter's nightshade. See under Enchanter.-- Stinking nightshade. See Henbane.-- Three-leaved nightshade. See Trillium.
nightshirt: A kind of nightgown for men.
nighttime: The time from dusk to dawn; -- opposed to Ant
nightward: Approaching toward night.
nigraniline: The complex, nitrogenous, organic base and dyestuff called alsoaniline black.
nigrescent: Growing black; changing to a black color; approaching toblackness. Johnson.
nigrification: The act or process of making black. [R.] Johnson.
nigrine: A ferruginous variety of rutile.
nigritic: Pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, negroes, or ofthe Negritos, Papuans, and the Melanesian races; negritic.
nigritude: Blackness; the state of being black. Lamb.
nigromancie: Necromancy. [Obs.]
nigromancien: A necromancer. [Obs.]These false enchanters or nigromanciens. Chaucer.
nigrosine: A dark blue dyestuff, of the induline group; -- called alsoazodiphenyl blue.
nigua: The chigoe.
nihil: Nothing. Nihil album Etym
nihilism: The theories and practices of the Nihilists.
nihilist: A member of a secret association (esp. in Russia), which isdevoted to the destruction of the present political, religious, andsocial institutions.
nihilistic: Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, nihilism.
nihility: Nothingness; a state of being nothing.
nil: Will not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nile: The great river of Egypt. Nile bird. (Zoöl.) (a) The wryneck.[Prov. Eng.] (b) The crocodile bird.-- Nile goose (Zoöl.), the Egyptian goose. See Note under Goose, 2.
nilgau: see Nylghau.
nill: Not to will; to refuse; to reject. [Obs.]Certes, said he, I nill thine offered grace. Spenser.
nilometer: An instrument for measuring the rise of water in the Nileduring its periodical flood.
niloscope: A Nilometer.
nilotic: Of or pertaining to the river Nile; as, the Nilotic crocodile.
nilt: Wilt not. [Obs.]
nim: To take; to steal; to filch. [Obs.]This canon it in his hand nam. Chaucer.
nimbiferous: Serving to bring clouds or stormy weather.
nimble: Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity;lively; swift.Through the mid seas the nimble pinnace sails. Pope.
nimbleness: The quality of being nimble; lightness and quickness in motion;agility; swiftness.
nimbless: Nimbleness. [Obs.] Spenser.
nimbly: In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion.
nimbose: Cloudy; stormy; tempestuous.
nimbus: A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light aroundthe heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals,pictures, etc.; a halo. See Aureola, and Glory, n., 5.
nimiety: State of being in excess. [R.]There is a nimiety, a too-muchess, in all Germans. Coleridge.
nimious: Excessive; extravagant; inordinate. [Obs.]
nimmer: A thief. [Obs.]
nin: Not in. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nincompoop: A fool; a silly or stupid person. [Law]An old ninnyhammer, a dotard, a nincompoop, is the best language shecan afford me. Addison.
nine: Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. Ninemen's morris. See Morris.-- Nine points circle (Geom.), a circle so related to any giventriangle as to pass through the three points in which theperpendiculars from the angles of the triangle upon the oppositesides (or the sides produced) meet the sides. It also passes throughthe three middle points of the sides of the triangle and through thethree middle points of those parts of the perpendiculars that arebetween their common point of meeting and the angles of the triangle.The circle is hence called the nine points or six points circle.
nine-bark: A white-flowered rosaceous shrub (Neillia, or Spiræa,opulifolia), common in the Northern United States. The bark separatesinto many thin layers, whence the name.
nine-eyes: The lamprey.
nine-killer: The northern butcher bird.
ninefold: Nine times repeated.
nineholes: A game in which nine holes are made in the ground, into which aball is bowled.
ninepins: A game played with nine pins, or pieces of wood, set on end, atwhich a wooden ball is bowled to knock them down; bowling.
ninescore: Nine times twenty, or one hundred and eighty.-- n.
nineteen: Nine and ten; eighteen and one more; one less than twenty; as,nineteen months.
nineteenth: An interval of two octaves and a fifth.
ninety: Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men.
ninny: A fool; a simpleton. Shak.
ninnyhammer: A simpleton; a silly person. [Colloq.] Addison.
ninthly: In the ninth place.
ninut: The magpie. [Prov. Eng.]
niobate: Same as Columbate.
niobe: The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes.Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew themall. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone.
niobic: Same as Columbic.
niobite: Same as Columbite.
niobium: A later name of columbium. See Columbium.
niopo: A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from theroasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina), thencecalled niopo tree.
nip: A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor;a dram.
nipperkin: A small cup. [Obs.]
nippers: A device with fingers or jaws for seizing an object and holdingor conveying it; as, in a printing press, a clasp for catching asheet and conveying it to the form.
nipping: Biting; pinching; painful; destructive; as, a nipping frost; anipping wind.
nippingly: In a nipping manner.
nippitate: Peculiary strong and good; -- said of ale or liquor. [Old Cant]'T will make a cup of wine taste nippitate. Chapman.
nippitato: Strong liquor. [Old Cant] Beau. & Fl.
nipple: The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast ormamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap.
nipplewort: A yellow-flowered composite herb (Lampsana communis), formerlyused as an external application to the nipples of women; -- calledalso dock-cress.
nirvana: In the Buddhist system of religion, the final emancipation ofthe soul from transmigration, and consequently a beatificenfrachisement from the evils of wordly existence, as by annihilationor absorption into the divine. See Buddhism.
nis: Is not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nisan: The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerlyanswering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of theChristian calendar. See Abib.
nisey: A simpleton. [Obs.]
nisi: Unless; if not.
niste: Wist not; knew not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nisus: A striving; an effort; a conatus.A nisus or energizing towards a presented object. Hickok.
nit: The egg of a louse or other small insect. Nit grass (Bot.), apretty annual European grass (Gastridium lendigerum), with smallspikelets somewhat resembling a nit. It is also found in Californiaand Chili.
nitency: Brightness; luster. [R.]
nithing: See Niding.
nitranilic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acidproduced as a white crystalline substance by the action of nitrousacid on hydroquinone.
nitraniline: Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of aniline. In generalthey are yellow crystalline substances.
nitrate: A salt of nitric acid. Nitrate of silver, a white crystallinesalt (AgNO3), used in photography and as a cauterizing agent; --called also lunar caustic.
nitrated: Combined, or impregnated, with nitric acid, or some of itscompounds.
nitratine: A mineral occurring in transparent crystals, usually of awhite, sometimes of a reddish gray, or lemon-yellow, color; nativesodium nitrate. It is used in making nitric acid and for manure.Called also soda niter.
nitre: See Niter.
nitriary: An artificial bed of animal matter for the manufacture of niterby nitrification. See Nitrification, 2.
nitric: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically,designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted withnitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitricoxide; nitric acid. Nitric acid, a colorless or yellowish liquidobtained by distilling a nitrate with sulphuric acid. It ispowerfully corrosive, being a strong acid, and in decomposition astrong oxidizer.-- Nitric anhydride, a white crystalline oxide of nitrogen (N2O5),called nitric pentoxide, and regarded as the anhydride of nitricacid.-- Nitric oxide, a colorless poisous gas (NO) obtained by treatingnitric acid with copper. On contact with the air or with oxygen, itbecomes reddish brown from the formation of nitric dioxide orperoxide.
nitride: A binary compound of nitrogen with a more metallic element orradical; as, boric nitride.
nitriferous: Bearing niter; yielding, or containing, niter.
nitrifier: An agent employed in nitrification.
nitrify: To combine or impregnate with nitrogen; to convert, byoxidation, into nitrous or nitric acid; to subject to, or produce by,nitrification.
nitrile: Any one of a series of cyanogen compounds; particularly, one ofthose cyanides of alcohol radicals which, by boiling with acids oralkalies, produce a carboxyl acid, with the elimination of thenitrogen as ammonia.
nitrite: A salt of nitrous acid. Amyl nitrite, a yellow oily volatileliquid, used in medicine as a depressant and a vaso-dilator. Itsinhalation produces an instantaneous flushing of the face.
nitro-: A combining form (used also adjectively) designating certaincompounds of nitrogen or of its acids, as nitrohydrochloric,nitrocalcite; also, designating the group or radical NO2, or itscompounds, as nitrobenzene. Nitro group, the radical NO2; -- calledalso nitroxyl.
nitro-chloroform: Same as Chlorpicrin.
nitrobenzene: A yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action ofnitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil ofbitter almonds, or essence of mirbane. It is used in perfumery, andis manufactured in large quantities in the preparation of aniline.Fornerly called also nitrobenzol.
nitrocalcite: Nitrate of calcium, a substance having a grayish white color,occuring in efforescences on old walls, and in limestone caves,especially where there exists decaying animal matter.
nitrocarbol: See Nitromethane.
nitrocellulose: See Gun cotton, under Gun.
nitroform: A nitro derivative of methane, analogous to chloroform,obtained as a colorless oily or crystalline substance, CH.(NO2)3,quite explosive, and having well-defined acid properties.
nitrogelatin: An explosive consisting of gun cotton and camphor dissolved innitroglycerin. [Written also nitrogelatine.]
nitrogen: A colorless nonmetallic element, tasteless and odorless,comprising four fifths of the atmosphere by volume. It is chemicallyvery inert in the free state, and as such is incapable of supportinglife (hence the name azote still used by French chemists); but itforms many important compounds, as ammonia, nitric acid, thecyanides, etc, and is a constituent of all organized living tissues,animal or vegetable. Symbol N. Atomic weight 14. It was formerlyregarded as a permanent noncondensible gas, but was liquefied in 1877by Cailletet of Paris, and Pictet of Geneva.
nitrogenize: To combine, or impregnate, with nitrogen or its compounds.
nitrogenous: of, pertaining to, or resembling, nitrogen; as, a nitrogenousprinciple; nitrogenous compounds. Nitrogenous foods. See 2d Noteunder Food, n., 1.
nitroglycerin: A liquid appearing like a heavy oil, colorless or yellowish,and consisting of a mixture of several glycerin salts of nitric acid,and hence more properly called glycerin nitrate. It is made by theaction of nitric acid on glycerin in the presence of sulphuric acid.It is extremely unstable and terribly explosive. A very dilutesolution is used in medicine as a neurotic under the name of glonion.[Written also nitroglycerine.]
nitrohydrochloric: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitric and hydrochloricacids. Nitrohydrochloric acid, a mixture of nitric and hydrochloricacids, usually in the proportion of one part of the former to threeof the latter, and remarkable for its solvent action on gold andplatinum; -- called also nitromuriatic acid, and aqua regia.
nitrol: Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro andthe nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom.
nitroleum: Nitroglycerin.
nitrolic: of, derived from, or designating, a nitrol; as, a nitrolicacid.
nitromagnesite: Nitrate of magnesium, a saline efflorescence closely resemblingnitrate of calcium.
nitrometer: An apparatus for determining the amount of nitrogen or some ofits compounds in any substance subjected to analysis; an azotometer.
nitromethane: A nitro derivative of methane obtained as a mobile liquid; --called also nitrocarbol.
nitromuriatic: Of, pertaining to, or composed of, nitric acid and muriaticacid; nitrohydrochloric. See Nitrohydrochloric.
nitrophnol: Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of phenol. They areyellow oily or crystalline substances and have well-defined acidproperties, as picric acid.
nitroprussic: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a complex acidcalled nitroprussic acid, obtained indirectly by the action of nitricacid on potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate), as a redcrystalline unstable substance. It forms salts called nitroprussides,which give a rich purple color with alkaline subphides.
nitroprusside: See Nitroprussic.
nitroquinol: A hypothetical nitro derivative of quinol or hydroquinone, notknown in the free state, but forming a well defined series ofderivatives.
nitrosaccharin: An explosive nitro derivative of certain sugars, analogous tonitroglycerin, gun cotton, etc.
nitrosalicylic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitro derivative ofsalicylic acid, called also anilic acid.
nitrose: See Nitrous.
nitroso-: (. (Chem.) A prefix (also used adjectively) designating thegroup or radical NO, called the nitroso group, or its compounds.
nitrosyl: the radical NO, called also the nitroso group. The term issometimes loosely used to designate certain nitro compounds; as,nitrosyl sulphuric acid. Used also adjectively.
nitrosylic: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrosyl; as, nitrosylicacid.
nitrous: Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of those compoundsin which nitrogen has a relatively lower valence as contrasted withnitric compounds. Nitrous acid (Chem.), a hypothetical acid ofnitrogen HNO2, not known in the free state, but forming a well knownseries of salts, viz., the nitrites.-- Nitrous oxide. See Laughing gas.
nitroxyl: The group NO2, usually called the nitro group.
nitrum: Niter. Nitrum flammans Etym
nitry: Nitrous. [Obs.]
nitryl: A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical.
nitter: The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses.
nittily: Lousily. [Obs.] Haywar
nittings: The refuse of good ore. Raymond.
nitty: Full of nits. B. Jonson.
nival: Abounding with snow; snowy. [Obs.] Johnson.
niveous: Snowy; resembling snow; partaking of the qualities of snow. SirT. Browne.
nivose: The fourth month of the French republican calendar [1792-1806].It commenced December 21, and ended January 19. See VendÉmiaire.
nix: One of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of amischievous disposition.The treacherous nixes who entice men to a watery death. Tylor.
nixie: See Nix.
nixie clerk: A post-office clerk in charge of the nixies.
nizam: The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India,since 1719.
no: Not any; not one; none.Let there be no strife ... between me and thee. Gen. xiii. 8.That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream. Byron.
noachian: Of or pertaining to the patriarch Noah, or to his time.
noah: A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge.Noah's ark. (a) (Zoöl.) A marine bivalve shell (Arca Noæ), whichsomewhat resembles an ark, or ship, in form. (b) A child's toy,consisting of an ark-shaped box containing many different woodenanimals.
nob: The head. [Low]
nobbily: In a nobby manner. [Slang]
nobbler: A dram of spirits. [Australia]
nobby: Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable.[Slang]
nobel prizes: Prizes for the encouragement of men and women who work for theinterests of humanity, established by the will of A. B. Nobel (1833-96), the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who left his entire estate forthis purpose. They are awarded yearly for what is regarded as themost important work during the year in physics, chemistry, medicineor physiology, idealistic literature, and service in the interest ofpeace. The prizes, averaging $40,000 each, were first awarded in1901.
nobiliary: Of or pertaining to the nobility. Fitzed. Hall.
nobilify: To make noble; to nobiliate. [Obs.]
nobilitate: To make noble; to ennoble; to exalt. [Obs.]
nobilitation: The act of making noble. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
noble: A European fish; the lyrie.
noble-minded: Having a noble mind; honorable; magnanimous.-- No"ble-mind`ed*ness, n.
nobleman: One of the nobility; a noble; a peer; one who enjoys rank abovea commoner, either by virtue of birth, by office, or by patent.
nobleness: The quality or state of being noble; greatness; dignity;magnanimity; elevation of mind, character, or station; nobility;grandeur; stateliness.His purposes are full honesty, nobleness, and integrity. Jer. Taylor.
noblewoman: A female of noble rank; a peeress.
nocake: Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food bythe Northern American Indians.
nocent: A criminal. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
nocently: Hurtfully; injuriosly. [R.]
nocive: Hurtful; injurious. [R.] Hooker.
nock: The upper fore corner of a boom sail or of a trysail.
noctambulation: Somnambulism; walking in sleep. Quain.
noctambulism: Somnambulism.
noctambulist: A somnambulist.
noctambulo: A noctambulist. [Obs.]
noctidial: Comprising a night and a day; a noctidial day. [R.] Holder.
noctiferous: Bringing night. [Obs.] Johnson.
noctilionid: A South American bat of the genus Noctilio, having cheekpouches and large incisor teeth.
noctiluca: That which shines at night; -- a fanciful name for phosphorus.
noctilucin: A fatlike substance in certain marine animals, to which theyowe their phosphorescent properties.
noctilucine: Of or pertaining to Noctiluca.
noctilucous: Shining in the night.
noctivagant: Going about in the night; night-wandering.
noctivagation: A roving or going about in the night. Gayton.
noctivagous: Noctivagant.
noctuary: A record of what passes in the night; a nightly journal; --distinguished from diary. [R.] Addison.
noctuid: Any one of numerous moths of the family Noctuidæ, orNoctuælitæ, as the cutworm moths, and armyworm moths; -- so calledbecause they fly at night.-- a.
noctule: A large European bat (Vespertilio, or Noctulina, altivolans).
nocturnal: An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of thestars, etc., at sea. I. Watts.
nocturnally: By night; nightly.
nocturne: A night piece, or serenade. The name is now used for a certaingraceful and expressive form of instrumental composition, as thenocturne for orchestra in Mendelsohn's "Midsummer-Night's Dream"music.
nocument: Harm; injury; detriment. [Obs.]
nocuous: Hurtful; noxious. [R.] -- Noc"u*ous*ly, adv. [R.]
nodal: Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point.Nodal line, Nodal point, in a vibrating plate or cord, that line orpoint which remains at rest while the other parts of the body are ina state of vibration.
nodated: Knotted. Nodated hyperbola (Geom.), a certain curve of thethird order having two branches which cross each other, forming anode.
nodation: Act of making a knot, or state of being knotted. [R.]
nodder: One who nods; a drowsy person.
nodding: Curved so that the apex hangs down; having the top bentdownward.
nodical: Of or pertaining to the nodes; from a node to the same nodeagain; as, the nodical revolutions of the moon. Nodical month. SeeLunar month, under Month.
nodosarine: Resembling in form or structure a foraminiferous shell of thegenus Nodosaria.-- n. (Zoöl.)
nodose: Having nodes or prominences; having the alternate jointsenlarged, as the antennæ of certain insects.
nodosity: Nodose; knotty; knotted. [Obs.]
nodular: Of, pertaining to, or in the form of, a nodule or knot.
nodule: A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump.
noduled: Having little knots or lumps.
noel: Same as Nowel.
noematachograph: An instrument for determining and registering the duration ofmore or less complex operations of the mind. Dunglison.
noemics: The science of the understanding; intellectual science.
noetian: One of the followers of Noetus, who lived in the third century.He denied the distinct personality of the Father, Son, and HolyGhost.
nof: Not of; nor of. [Obs.]
nog: A treenail to fasten the shores.
noggen: Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh. [Obs.] Johnson.
nogging: Rough brick masonry used to fill in the interstices of a woodenframe, in building.
noght: Not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
noiance: Annoyance. [Obs.] Tusser.
noie: To annoy. See Noy. [Obs.]
noier: An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser.
noil: A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from thelonger staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of wastesilk.
noils: Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings.
noint: To anoint. [Obs.] Sir T. North.
noious: Annoying; troublesome. [Obs.]
noise: To sound; to make a noise. Milton.
noiseful: Loud; clamorous. [Obs.] Dryden.
noiseless: Making, or causing, no noise or bustle; without noise; silent;as, the noiseless foot of time.So noiseless would I live. Dryden.-- Noise"less*ly, adv.-- Noise"less*ness, n.
noisette: A hybrid rose produced in 1817, by a French gardener, Noisette,of Charleston, South Carolina, from the China rose and the musk rose.It has given rise to many fine varieties, as the Lamarque, theMarechal (or Marshal) Niel, and the Cloth of gold. Most roses of thisclass have clustered flowers and are of vigorous growth. P.Henderson.
noisily: In a noisy manner.
noisiness: The state or quality of being noisy.
nol-pros: To discontinue by entering a nolle prosequi; to decline toprosecute.
nolde: Would not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nole: The head. [Obs.] Shak.
noli-me-tangere: A name formerly applied to several varieties of ulcerouscutaneous diseases, but now restricted to Lupus exedens, anulcerative affection of the nose.
nolition: Adverse action of will; unwillingness; -- opposed to Ant:volition.A nolition and a direct enmity against the lust. Jer. Taylor.
noll: The head; the noddle. [Obs.]
nolle prosequi: Will not prosecute; -- an entry on the record, denoting that aplaintiff discontinues his suit, or the attorney for the public aprosecution; either wholly, or as to some count, or as to some ofseveral defendants.
nolleity: The state of being unwilling; nolition. [R.]
nolo contendere: A plea, by the defendant, in a criminal prosecution, which,without admitting guilt, subjects him to all the consequences of aplea of quilty.
nolt: Neat cattle. [Prov. Eng.]
nom: Name. Nom de guerre (, literally, war name; hence, a fictitiousname, or one assumed for a time.-- Nom de plume (, literally, pen name; hence, a name assumed by anauthor as his or her signature.
noma: See Canker, n., 1.
nomad: One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wandersfrom place to place in search of pasture or game.
nomade: See Nomad, n.
nomadian: A nomad. [R.]
nomadic: Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering;moving from place to place for subsistence; as, a nomadic tribe.-- No*mad"ic*al*ly, adv.
nomadism: The state of being a nomad.
nomadize: To lead the life of a nomad; to wander with flocks and herdsfor the sake of finding pasturage.The Vogules nomadize chiefly about the Rivers Irtish, Obi, Kama, andVolga. W. Tooke.
nomancy: The art or practice of divining the destiny of persons by theletters which form their names.
nomarch: The chief magistrate of a nome or nomarchy.
nomarchy: A province or territorial division of a kingdom, under the ruleof a nomarch, as in modern Greece; a nome.
nombles: The entrails of a deer; the umbles. [Written also numbles.]Johnson.
nombril: A point halfway between the fess point and the middle basepoint of an escutcheon; -- called also navel point. See Escutcheon.
nome: See Term.
nomenclatress: A female nomenclator.
nomenclatural: Pertaining or according to a nomenclature.
nomial: A name or term.
nomic: Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling,in distinction from strictly phonetic methods. H Sweet.-- n.
nominal: A verb formed from a noun.
nominalism: The principles or philosophy of the Nominalists.
nominalist: One of a sect of philosophers in the Middle Ages, who adoptedthe opinion of Roscelin, that general conceptions, or universals,exist in name only. Reid.
nominalistic: Of or pertaining to the Nominalists.
nominalize: To convert into a noun. [Obs.]
nominally: In a nominal manner; by name; in name only; not in reality.Burke.
nominately: By name; particularly; namely. [Obs.] Spelman.
nominatival: Of or pertaining to the nominative case.
nominative: Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case orform of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb.-- n.
nominatively: In the manner of a nominative; as a nominative.
nominator: One who nominates.
nominee: A person named, or designated, by another, to any office, duty,or position; one nominated, or proposed, by others for office or forelection to office.
nominor: A nominator. [Obs.] Bentham.
nomocracy: Government in accordance with a system of law. Milman.
nomography: A treatise on laws; an exposition of the form proper for laws.
nomopelmous: Having a separate and simple tendon to flex the first toe, orhallux, as do passerine birds.
nomothete: A lawgiver. [R.]
non: No; not. See No, a. Chaucer.
non assumpsit: The general plea or denial in an action of assumpsit.
non est factum: The plea of the general issue in an action of debt on bond.
non est inventus: The return of a sheriff on a writ, when the defendant is notfound in his county. Bouvier.
non liquet: It is not clear; -- a verdict given by a jury when a matter isto be deferred to another day of trial.
non obstante: A clause in old English statutes and letters patent, importinga license from the crown to do a thing notwithstanding any statute tothe contrary. This dispensing power was abolished by the Bill ofRights.In this very reign [Henry III.] the practice of dispensing withstatutes by a non obstante was introduced. Hallam.Non obstante veredicto Etym
non prosequitur: A judgment entered against the plaintiff in a suit where hedoes not appear to prosecute. See Nolle prosequi.
non sequitur: An inference which does not follow from the premises.
non-: A prefix used in the sense of not; un-; in-; as innonattention, or non-attention, nonconformity, nonmetallic, nonsuit.
non-ego: The union of being and relation as distinguished from, andcontrasted with, the ego. See Ego.
non-episcopal: Not Episcopal; not pertaining to the Episcopal church orsystem.
non-feasance: An omission or neglect to do something, esp. that which oughtto have been done. Cf. Malfeasance.
non-pros: To decline or fail to prosecute; to allow to be dropped (saidof a suit); to enter judgment against (a plaintiff who fails toprosecute); as, the plaintiff was non-prossed.
nonability: An exception taken against a plaintiff in a cause, when he isunable legally to commence a suit.
nonacceptance: A neglect or refusal to accept.
nonacid: Destitute of acid properties; hence, basic; metallic; positive;-- said of certain atoms and radicals.
nonacquaintance: Want of acquaintance; the state of being unacquainted.
nonacquiescence: Refusal of acquiescence; failure to yield or comply.
nonadmission: Failure to be admitted.
nonadult: Not adult; immature.
nonaerobiotic: Capable of living without atmospheric oxygen; anaërobiotic.
nonage: The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergyon the death of persons in their parishes. Mozley & W.
nonaged: Having the quality of nonage; being a minor; immature. W.Browne.
nonagenarian: A person ninety years old.
nonagesimal: Of or pertaining to the ninetieth degree or to a nonagesimal.
nonagon: A figure or polygon having nine sides and nine angles.
nonagrian: Any moth of the genus Nonagria and allied genera, as thespindleworm and stalk borer.
nonalienation: Failure to alienate; also, the state of not being alienated.
nonane: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffinseries; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in themolecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredientof ordinary kerosene.
nonappearance: Default of apperance, as in court, to prosecute or defend;failure to appear.
nonappointment: Neglect of making appointment; failure to receive anappointment.
nonarrival: Failure to arrive.
nonattendance: A failure to attend; omission of attendance; nonappearance.
nonattention: Inattention.
nonbituminous: Containing no bitumen; not bituminous.
nonce: The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; --chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce.The miller was a stout carl for the nones. Chaucer.And that he calls for drink, I 'll have prepared him A chalice forthe nonce. Shak.Nonce word, "a word apparently employed only for the nonce". Murray(New English Dict. ).
nonchalance: Indifference; carelessness; coolness.
nonchalant: Indifferent; careless; cool.
nonchalantly: In a nonchalant, indifferent, or careless manner; coolly.
nonclaim: A failure to make claim within the time limited by law;omission of claim.
noncohesion: Want of cohesion.
noncoincidence: Lack of coincidence.
noncoincident: Not coincident.
noncombatant: Any person connected with an army, or within the lines of anarmy, who does not make it his business to fight, as any one of themedical officers and their assistants, chaplains, and others; also,any of the citizens of a place occupied by an army; also, any oneholding a similar position with respect to the navy.
noncommissioned: Not having a commission. Noncommissioned officer (Mil.), asubordinate officer not appointed by a commission from the chiefexecutive or supreme authority of the State; but by the Secretary ofWar or by the commanding officer of the regiment.
noncommittal: A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance orrefusal to commit one's self. Also used adjectively.
noncommunion: Neglect or failure of communion.
noncompletion: Lack of completion; failure to complete.
noncompliance: Neglect of compliance; failure to comply.
noncomplying: Neglecting or refusing to comply.
nonconcluding: Not concluding.
nonconcur: To dissent or refuse to concur.
nonconcurrence: Refusal to concur.
noncondensible: Not condensible; incapable of being liquefied; -- said ofgases.
noncondensing: Not condensing; discharging the steam from the cylinder at apressure nearly equal to or above that of the atmosphere and not intoa condenser.
nonconducting: Not conducting; not transmitting a fluid or force; thus, inelectricity, wax is a nonconducting substance.
nonconduction: The quality of not being able to conduct or transmit; failureto conduct.
nonconductor: A substance which does not conduct, that is, convey ortransmit, heat, electricity, sound, vibration, or the like, or whichtransmits them with difficulty; an insulator; as, wool is anonconductor of heat; glass and dry wood are nonconductors ofelectricity.
nonconforming: Not conforming; declining conformity; especially, notconforming to the established church of a country.
nonconformist: One who does not conform to an established church; especially,one who does not conform to the established church of England; adissenter.
nonconformity: Neglect or failure of conformity; especially, in England, theneglect or refusal to unite with the established church in its ritesand modes of worship.
nonconstat: It does not appear; it is not plain or clear; it does notfollow.
noncontagious: Not contagious; not catching; not communicable by contact.-- Non`con*ta"gious*ness, n.
noncontent: One who gives a negative vote; -- sometimes abridged intononcon. or non con.
nonda: The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, ParinariumNonda.
nondecane: A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, a white waxy substance,C19H40; -- so called from the number of carbon atoms in the molecule.
nondeciduate: Characterized by the absence of a decidua; indeciduate.
nondelivery: A neglect or failure of delivery; omission of delivery.
nondeposition: A failure to deposit or throw down.
nondescript: Not hitherto described; novel; hence, odd; abnormal;unclassifiable.
nondevelopment: Failure or lack of development.
nondiscovery: Want or failure of discovery.
nondo: A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with alarge aromatic root. It is found chiefly in the Alleghany region.Also called Angelico.
none: Same as Nones, 2.
noneffective: Not fit or available for duty.
nonelastic: Not having elasticity.
nonelect: A person or persons not elected, or chosen, to salvation.
nonelection: Failure of election.
nonelectric: A substance that is not an electric; that which transmitselectricity, as a metal.
nones: The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June,August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day ofMarch, May, July, and October. The nones were nine days before theides, reckoning inclusively, according to the Roman method.
nonessential: Not essential.
nonesuch: A person or thing of a sort that there is no other such;something extraordinary; a thing that has not its equal. It is givenas a name to various objects, as to a choice variety of apple, aspecies of medic (Medicago lupulina), a variety of pottery clay, etc.
nonett: The titmouse. [Obs.]
nonexecution: Neglect or failure of execution; nonperformance.
nonexistent: Not having existence.
nonexportation: A failure of exportation; a not exporting of commodities.
nonextensile: Not extensile; incapable of being stretched.
nonfulfillment: Neglect or failure to fulfill.
nonillion: According to the French and American notation, a thousandoctillions, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed; according to theEnglish notation, a million octillions, or a unit with fifty-fourciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.
nonimportation: Want or failure of importation; a not importing of commodities.
nonimporting: Not importing; not bringing from foreign countries.
noninflectional: Not admitting of, or characterized by, inflection.
noninhabitant: One who is not an inhabitant; a stranger; a foreigner; anonresident.
nonintervention: The state or habit of not intervening or interfering; as, thenonintervention of one state in the affairs of another.
nonius: A vernier.
nonjoinder: The omission of some person who ought to have been made aplaintiff or defendant in a suit, or of some cause of action whichought to be joined.
nonjurant: Nonjuring.
nonjuring: Not swearing allegiance; -- applied to the party in GreatBritain that would not swear allegiance to William and Mary, or theirsuccessors.
nonjuror: One of those adherents of James II. who refused to take theoath of allegiance to William and Mary, or to their successors, afterthe revolution of 1688; a Jacobite.
nonjurorism: The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors.
nonlimitation: Want of limitation; failure to limit.
nonmalignant: Not malignant, as a disease.
nonmanufacturing: Not carrying on manufactures.
nonmedullated: Not medullated; (Anat.) without a medulla or marrow, or withouta medullary sheath; as, a nonmedullated nerve fiber.
nonmember: One who is not a member.
nonmembership: State of not being a member.
nonmetal: Any one of the set of elements which, as contrasted with themetals, possess, produce, or receive, acid rather than basicproperties; a metalloid; as, oxygen, sulphur, and chlorine arenonmetals.
nonmetallic: Resembling, or possessing the properties of, a nonmetal ormetalloid; as, sulphur is a nonmetallic element.
nonmoral: Not moral nor immoral; having no connection with morals; not inthe sphere of morals or ethics; not ethical.
nonnatural: Not natural; unnatural.
nonne: A nun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nonnecessity: Absence of necessity; the quality or state of beingunnecessary.
nonnitrognous: Devoid of nitrogen; as, a nonnitrogenous principle; anonnitrogenous food. See the Note under Food, n., 1.
nonnucleated: Without a nucleus.
nonny: A silly fellow; a ninny.
nonobedience: Neglect of obedience; failure to obey.
nonobservance: Neglect or failure to observe or fulfill.
nonoic: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoicacid, which is also called pelargonic acid. Cf. Pelargonic.
nonone: Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14)of the valylene series.
nonoxygenous: Without oxygen; characterized by the absence of oxygen; as, anonoxygenous alkaloid.
nonpareil: A size of type next smaller than minion and next larger thanagate (or ruby).
nonpayment: Neglect or failure to pay.
nonperformance: Neglect or failure to perform.
nonphotobiotic: Capable of living without light; as, nonphotobiotic plantcells, or cells which habitually live in darkness.
nonplane: Not lying in one plane; -- said of certain curves.
nonplus: A state or condition which daffles reason or confoundsjudgment; insuperable difficalty; inability to proceed or decide;puzzle; quandary.Both of them are a perfect nonplus and baffle to all humanunderstanding. South.
nonpreparation: Neglect or failure to prepare; want of preparation.
nonpresentation: Neglect or failure to present; state of not being presented.
nonproduction: A failure to produce or exhibit.
nonprofessional: Not belonging to a profession; not done by, or proceeding from,professional men; contrary to professional usage.
nonproficiency: Want of proficiency; failure to make progress.
nonproficient: One who has failed to become proficient.
nonrecurrent: Not recurring.
nonrecurring: Nonrecurrent.
nonregardance: Want of due regard; disregard; slight. [Obs.] Shak.
nonregent: A master of arts whose regency has ceased. See Regent.
nonrendition: Neglect of rendition; the not rendering what is due.The nonrendition of a service which is due. S. E. Dwight.
nonresemblance: Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.
nonresidence: The state or condition of being nonresident, Swift.
nonresident: Not residing in a particular place, on one's own estate, or inone's proper place; as, a nonresident clergyman or proprietor oflands.
nonresistance: The principles or practice of a nonresistant; passiveobedience; submission to authority, power, oppression, or violencewithout opposition.
nonresistant: Making no resistance.
nonresisting: Not making resistance.
nonruminant: Not ruminating; as, a nonruminant animal.
nonsane: Unsound; not perfect; as, a person of nonsane memory.Blackstone.
nonsensical: Without sense; unmeaning; absurb; foolish; irrational;preposterous.-- Non*sen"si*cal*ly, adv.-- Non*sen"si*cal*ness, n.
nonsensitive: Not sensitive; wanting sense or perception; not easilyaffected.
nonsexual: Having no distinction of sex; sexless; neuter.
nonslaveholding: Not possessing or holding slaves; as, a nonslaveholding State.
nonsolution: Failure of solution or explanation.
nonsolvency: Inability to pay debts; insolvency.
nonsolvent: Not solvent; insolvent.
nonsonant: Not sonant.-- n.
nonsparing: Sparing none.
nonstriated: Without striations; unstriped; as, nonstriated muscle fibers.
nonsubmission: Want of submission; failure or refusal to submit.
nonsubmissive: Not submissive.
nonsuch: See Nonesuch.
nonsuit: A neglect or failure by the plaintiff to follow up his suit; astopping of the suit; a renunciation or withdrawal of the cause bythe plaintiff, either because he is satisfied that he can not supportit, or upon the judge's expressing his opinion. A compulsory nonsuitis a nonsuit ordered by the court on the ground that the plaintiff onhis own showing has not made out his case.
nonsurety: Insecurity. [Obs.]
nontenure: A plea of a defendant that he did not hold the land, asaffirmed.
nonterm: A vacation between two terms of a court.
nontoxic: Not toxic.
nontronite: A greenish yellow or green mineral, consisting chiefly of thehydrous silicate of iron.
nonuniformist: One who believes that past changes in the structure of theearth have proceeded from cataclysms or causes more violent than arenow operating; -- called also nonuniformitarian.
nonunionist: One who does not belong, or refuses to belong, to a tradesunion.
nonusance: Neglect of using; failure to use. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
nonuser: Neglect or omission to use an easement or franchise or toassert a right. Kent.
nonvascular: Destitute of vessels; extravascular.
nonvernacular: Not vernacular.A nonvernacular expression. Sir W. Hamilton.
nonvocal: Not vocal; destitute of tone.-- n.
nonyl: The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and formingmany compounds. Used also adjectively; as, nonyl alcohol.
nonylene: Any one of a series of metameric, unsaturated hydrocarbonsC9H18 of the ethylene series.
nonylenic: Of, pertaining to, related to, or designating, nonylene or itscompounds; as, nonylenic acid.
nonylic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, nonyl or its compounds; as,nonylic acid.
noodle: A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny. [Low]The chuckling grin of noodles. Sydney Smith.
nook: A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies;a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat.How couldst thou find this dark, sequestered nook Milton.
nook-shotten: Full of nooks, angles, or corners. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]That nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.
noon: No. See the Note under No. [Obs.]
noon-flower: The goat's beard, whose flowers close at midday.
noonday: Midday; twelve o'clock in the day; noon.
nooning: A rest at noon; a repast at noon.
noonshun: See Nunchion. Nares.
noonstead: The position of the sun at noon. [Obs.] Drayton.
noontide: The time of noon; midday.
noose: A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it isdrawn.
noot: See lst Not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nopal: A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera), originallyMexican, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and from which it iscollected. The name is sometimes given to other species of Cactaceæ.
nopalry: A plantation of the nopal for raising the cochineal insect.
nope: A bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.]
nor: A negative connective or particle, introducing the secondmember or clause of a negative proposition, following neither, ornot, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative propositionsfollows either). Nor is also used sometimes in the first member forneither, and sometimes the neither is omitted and implied by the useof nor.Provide neither gold nor silver, nor brass, in your purses, nor scripfor your journey. Matt. x. 9, 10.Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. Matt. vi. 20.I love him not, nor fear him. Shak.Where neither party is nor true, nor kind. Shak.Simois nor Xanthus shall be wanting there. Dryden.
norbertine: See Premonstrant.
norfolk: Short for Norfolk Jacket.
norfolk jacket: A kind of loose-fitting plaited jacket, having a loose belt.
norfolk plover: The stone curlew.
norfolk spaniel: One of a breed of field spaniels similar to the clumbers, butshorter in body and of a liver-and-white or black-and-white color.
noria: A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream againstits floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which wateris raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, andelsewhere for irrigating land; a Persian wheel.
norian: Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks. T. S.Hunt.
norice: Nurse. [Obs.] Chaucer.
norie: The cormorant. [Prov. Eng.]
norimon: A Japanese covered litter, carried by men. B. Taylor.
norite: A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of atriclinic feldspar (as labradorite) and hypersthene.
norium: A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon.
norlander: A northener; a person from the north country.
norm: A typical, structural unit; a type. Agassiz.
normal: According to a square or rule; perpendicular; forming a rightangle. Specifically
normalcy: The quality, state, or fact of being normal; as, the point ofnormalcy. [R.]
normalization: Reduction to a standard or normal state.
normally: In a normal manner. Darwin.
norman: A wooden bar, or iron pin. W. C. Russell.
normanism: A Norman idiom; a custom or expression peculiar to the Normans.M. Arnold.
noropianic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the aromaticseries obtained from opianic acid.
norroy: The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at-arms, under King.
norse: Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the languagespoken by its inhabitants.
norseman: One of the ancient Scandinavians; a Northman.
nortelry: Nurture; education; culture; bringing up. [Obs.]Nortelry . . . learned at the nunnery. Chaucer.
north: Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northerndirection from the point of observation or reckoning; proceedingtoward the north, or coming from the north. North following. SeeFollowing, a., 2.-- North pole, that point in the heavens, or on the earth, ninetydegrees from the equator toward the north.-- North preceding. See Following, a., 2.-- North star, the star toward which the north pole of the earthvery nearly points, and which accordingly seems fixed and immovablein the sky. The star a (alpha) of the Little Bear, is our presentnorth star, being distant from the pole about 1º 25', and from yearto year approaching slowly nearer to it. It is called also Cynosura,polestar, and by astronomers, Polaris.
north star state: Minnesota; -- a nickname.
northeast: The point between the north and east, at an equal distance fromeach; the northeast part or region.
northeaster: A storm, strong wind, or gale, coming from the northeast.
northeasterly: Pertaining to the northeast; toward the northeast, or comingfrom the northeast.
northeastern: Of or pertaining to the northeast; northeasterly.
norther: A wind from the north; esp., a strong and cold north wind inTexas and the vicinity of the Gulf of Mexico.
northerliness: The quality or state of being northerly; direction toward thenorth.
northerly: Of or pertaining to the north; toward the north, or from thenorth; northern.
northernly: Northerly. [Obs.] Hakewill.
northernmost: Farthest north.
northing: Distance northward from any point of departure or of reckoning,measured on a meridian; -- opposed to Ant
northman: One of the inhabitants of the north of Europe; esp., one of theancient Scandinavians; a Norseman.
northmost: Lying farthest north; northernmost.Northmost part of the coast of Mozambique. De Foe.
northness: A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point to thenorth. Faraday.
northumbrian: Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England.-- n.
northward: Toward the north; nearer to the north than to the east or westpoint.
northwardly: Having a northern direction.
northwest: The point in the horizon between the north and west, andequally distant from each; the northwest part or region.
northwester: A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind.
northwesterly: Toward the northwest, or from the northwest.
northwestern: Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a directiontoward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, anorthwestern course.
norwegian: Of or pertaining to Norway, its inhabitants, or its language.
norwegium: A rare metallic element, of doubtful identification, said tooccur in the copper-nickel of Norway.
norweyan: Norwegian. [Obs.] Shak.
nose: The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of thehead containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactoryorgan. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory.
nosebag: A bag in which feed for a horse, ox, or the like, may befastened under the nose by a string passing over the head.
noseband: That part of the headstall of a bridle which passes over ahorse's nose.
nosebleed: The yarrow. See Yarrow.
nosed: Having a nose, or such a nose; -- chieflay used in composition;as, pug-nosed.
nosegay: A bunch of odorous and showy flowers; a bouquet; a posy. Pope.
nosel: To nurse; to lead or teach; to foster; to nuzzle. [Obs.]If any man use the Scripture . . . to nosel thee in anything save inChrist, he is a false prophet. Tyndale.
noseless: Destitute of a nose.
nosesmart: A kind of cress, a pungent cruciferous plant, including severalspecies of the genus Nasturtium.
nosing: That part of the treadboard of a stair which projects over theriser; hence, any like projection, as the projecting edge of amolding.
nosle: Nozzle. [Obs.]
nosocomial: Of or pertaining to a hospital; as, nosocomial atmosphere.Dunglison.
nosography: A description or classification of diseases.
nosological: Of or pertaining to nosology.
nosologist: One versed in nosology.
nosophen: An iodine compound obtained as a yellowish gray, odorless,tasteless powder by the action of iodine on phenolphthalein.
nosophobia: Morbid dread of disease.
nosopoetic: Producing diseases. [R.] Arbuthnot.
nost: Wottest not; knowest not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nostalgia: Homesickness; esp., a severe and sometimes fatal form ofmelancholia, due to homesickness.
nostalgic: Of or pertaining to nostalgia; affected with nostalgia.
nostalgy: Same as Nostalgia.
nostoc: A genus of algæ. The plants are composed of moniliform cellsimbedded in a gelatinous substance.
nostril: One of the external openings of the nose, which give passage tothe air breathed and to secretions from the nose and eyes; one of theanterior nares.
not: Wot not; know not; knows not. [Obs.] Chaucer.
notabilia: Things worthy of notice.
notable: One of a number of persons, before the revolution of 1789,chiefly of the higher orders, appointed by the king to constitute arepresentative body.
notableness: The quality of being notable.
notably: In a notable manner.
notaeum: The back or upper surface, as of a bird.
notal: Of or pertaining to the back; dorsal.
notandum: A thing to be noted or observed; a notable fact; -- chieflyused in the plural.
notarial: Of or pertaining to a notary; done or taken by a notary; as, anotarial seal; notarial evidence or attestation.
notarially: In a notarial manner.
notary: A public officer who attests or certifies deeds and otherwritings, or copies of them, usually under his official seal, to makethem authentic, especially in foreign countries. His duties chieflyrelate to instruments used in commercial transactions, such asprotests of negotiable paper, ship's papers in cases of loss, damage,etc. He is generally called a notary public.
notate: Marked with spots or lines, which are often colored. Henslow.
notchboard: The board which receives the ends of the steps in a staircase.
notching: A method of joining timbers, scantling, etc., by notching them,as at the ends, and overlapping or interlocking the notched portions.
notchweed: A foul-smelling weed, the stinking goosefoot (ChenopodiumVulvaria).
note: To butt; to push with the horns. [Prov. Eng.]
note paper: Writing paper, not exceeding in size, when folded once, five byeight inches.
noted: Well known by reputation or report; eminent; celebrated; as, anoted author, or traveler.-- Not"ed*ly, adv.-- Not"ed*ness, n.
noteful: Useful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
noteless: Not attracting notice; not conspicuous.Noteless as the race from which he sprung. Sir W. Scott.
notelessness: A state of being noteless.
notelet: A little or short note; a billet.
noteworthy: Worthy of observation or notice; remarkable.
nother: Neither; nor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nothing: A cipher; naught. Nothing but, only; no more than. Chaucer.-- To make nothing of. (a) To make no difficulty of; to consider astrifling or important. "We are industrious to preserve our bodiesfrom slavery, but we make nothing of suffering our souls to be slavesto our lusts." Ray. (b) Not to understand; as, I could make nothingof what he said.
nothingarian: One of no certain belief; one belonging to no particular sect.
nothingism: Nihility; nothingness. [R.]
noticeable: Capable of being observed; worthy of notice; likely to attractobservation; conspicous.A noticeable man, with large gray eyes. Wordsworth.
noticeably: In a noticeable manner.
noticer: One who notices.
notidanian: Any one of several species of sharks of the family Notidanidæ,or Hexanchidæ. Called also cow sharks. See Shark.
notionality: A notional or groundless opinion. [R.] Glanvill.
notionally: In mental apprehension; in conception; not in reality.Two faculties . . . notionally or really distinct. Norris.
notionate: Notional. [R.]
notionist: One whose opinions are ungrounded notions. [R.] Bp. Hopkins.
notist: An annotator. [Obs.]
notobranchiate: Of or pertaining to the Notobranchiata.
notochord: An elastic cartilagelike rod which is developed beneath themedullary groove in the vertebrate embryo, and constitutes theprimitive axial skeleton around which the centra of the vertebræ andthe posterior part of the base of the skull are developed; the chordadorsalis. See Illust. of Ectoderm.
notochordal: Of or pertaining to the notochord; having a notochord.
notodontian: Any one of several species of bombycid moths belonging toNotodonta, Nerice, and allied genera. The caterpillar of these mothshas a hump, or spine, on its back.
notopodium: The dorsal lobe or branch of a parapodium. See Parapodium.
notorhizal: Having the radicle of the embryo lying against the back of oneof the cotyledons; incumbent.
notoriety: The quality or condition of being notorious; the state of beinggenerally or publicly known; -- commonly used in an unfavorablesense; as, the notoriety of a crime.They were not subjects in their own nature so exposed to publicnotoriety. Addison.
notorious: Generally known and talked of by the public; universallybelieved to be true; manifest to the world; evident; -- usually in anunfavorable sense; as, a notorious thief; a notorious crime or vice.Your goodness, Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious. Shak.
notornis: A genus of birds allied to the gallinules, but havingrudimentary wings and incapable of flight. Notornis Mantelli wasfirst known as a fossil bird of New Zealand, but subsequently a fewindividuals were found living on the southern island. It is supposedto be now nearly or quite extinct.
nototherium: An extinct genus of gigantic herbivorous marsupials, found inthe Pliocene formation of Australia.
nototrema: The pouched, or marsupial, frog of South America.
notself: The negative of self. "A cognizance of notself." Sir. W.Hamilton.
nott: Shorn. [Obs.]
nott-headed: Having the hair cut close. [Obs.] Chapman.
notturno: Same as Nocturne.
notum: The back.
notus: The south wind.
notwheat: Wheat not bearded. Carew.
notwithstanding: Without prevention, or obstruction from or by; in spite of.We gentil women bee Loth to displease any wight, Notwithstanding ourgreat right. Chaucer's Dream.Those on whom Christ bestowed miraculous cures were so transportedthat their gratitude made them, notwithstanding his prohibition,proclaim the wonders he had done. Dr. H. More.
nouch: An ouch; a jewel. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nougat: A cake, sweetmeat, or confectión made with almonds or othernuts.
nought: See Naught. Chaucer.
nould: Would not. [Obs.] "By those who nould repent." Fairfax.
noule: The top of the head; the head or noll. [Obs.] Spenser.
noumenal: Of or pertaining to the noumenon; real; -- opposed tophenomenal. G. H. Lewes.
noumenon: The of itself unknown and unknowable rational object, or thingin itself, which is distinguished from the Ant
noun: A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature orthing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive.
nounal: Of or pertaining to a noun.Verbs which in whole or in part have shed their old nounal coat.Earle.
nounize: To change (an adjective, verb, etc.) into a noun. Earle.
nourice: A nurse. [Obs.] Spenser.
nourish: A nurse. [Obs.] Hoolland.
nourisher: One who, or that which, nourishes. Milton.
nourishing: Promoting growth; nutritious,
nourishingly: Nutritively; cherishingly.
nouriture: Nurture. [Obs.] Spenser.
noursle: To nurse; to rear; to bring up. [Obs.] [Written also nosel,nousel, nousle, nowsle, nusle, nuzzle, etc.]She noursled him till years he raught. Spenser.
nous: Intellect; understanding; talent; -- used humorously.
nova: A new star, usually appearing suddenly, shining for a briefperiod, and then sinking into obscurity. Such appearances aresupposed to result from cosmic collisions, as of a dark star withinterstellar nebulosities. The most important modern novæ are
novaculite: A variety of siliceous slate, of which hones are made; razorstone; Turkey stone; hone stone; whet slate.
novatian: One of the sect of Novatius, or Novatianus, who held that thelapsed might not be received again into communion with the church,and that second marriages are unlawful.
novatianism: The doctrines or principles of the Novatians. Milner.
novation: A substitution of a new debt for an old one; also, theremodeling of an old obligation.
novator: An innovator. [Obs.]
novel: Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, outof the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising.
novelette: A short novel.
novelism: Innovation. [Obs.]
novelist: A writer of news. [Obs.] Tatler (178).
novelize: To innovate. [Obs.]
novelry: Novelty; new things. [Obs.] Chaucer.
november: The eleventh month of the year, containing thirty days.
novenary: Of or pertaining to the number nine.
novene: Relating to, or dependent on, the number nine; novenary. [R.]The triple and novene division ran throughout. Milman.
novennial: Done or recurring every ninth year.
novercal: Done or recurring every ninth year.
novice: One who enters a religious house, whether of monks or nuns, asa probationist. Shipley.No poore cloisterer, nor no novys. Chaucer.
noviceship: The state of being a novice; novitiate.
novilunar: Of or pertaining to the new moon. [R.]
novitious: Newly invented; recent; new. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
novity: Newness; novelty. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
novum: A game at dice, properly called novem quinque (L., nine five),the two principal throws being nine and five. [Obs.] Shak.
now: Existing at the present time; present. [R.] "Our nowhappiness." Glanvill.
nowadays: In these days; at the present time.What men of spirit, nowadays, Come to give sober judgment of newplays Garrick.
nowch: See Nouch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
nowd: The European gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus). [Written alsoknoud.]
nowed: Knotted; tied in a knot, as a serpent.
nowel: A kind of hymn, or canticle, of mediæval origin, sung in honorof the Nativity of our Lord; a Christmas carol. Grove.
nowes: The marriage knot. [Obs.] Crashaw.
nowhere: Not anywhere; not in any place or state; as, the book isnowhere to be found.
nowhither: Not anywhither; in no direction; nowhere. [Archaic] "Thyservant went nowhither." 2 Kings v. 25.
nowise: Not in any manner or degree; in no way; noways.Others whose case is nowise different. Earle.
nowt: Neat cattle.
nowthe: See Nouthe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
noy: To annoy; to vex. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Piers Plowman.All that noyed his heavy spright. Spenser.
noyade: A drowning of many persons at once, -- a method of executionpracticed at Nantes in France during the Reign of Terror, by JeanBaptiste Carrier.
noyance: , Annoyance. [Obs.] Spenser.
noyau: A cordial of brandy, etc., flavored with the kernel of thebitter almond, or of the peach stone, etc.
noyer: An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser.
noyful: Full of annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
noyls: See Noils.
noyous: Annoying; disagreeable. [Obs.]Watch the noyous night, and wait for Spenser.
nozle: Nozzle. [Obs.]
nuance: A shade of difference; a delicate gradation.
nub: To push; to nudge; also, to beckon. [Prov. Eng.]
nubbin: A small or imperfect ear of maize. [Colloq. U. S.]
nubble: To beat or bruise with the fist. [Obs.] Ainsworth.
nubecula: Specifically, the Magellanic clouds.
nubia: A light fabric of wool, worn on the head by women; a cloud.
nubian: Of or pertaining to Nubia in Eastern Africa.-- n.
nubiferous: Bringing, or producing, clouds.
nubigenous: Born of, or produced from, clouds. [R.]
nubilate: To cloud. [Obs.]
nubile: Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable. Prior.
nubility: The state of being marriageable. [R.]
nucament: A catkin or ament; the flower cluster of the hazel, pine,willow, and the like.
nucamentaceous: Like a nut either in structure or in being indehiscent; bearingone-seeded nutlike fruits. [Written also nucumentaceous.]
nucellus: See Nucleus, 3 (a).
nucha: The back or upper part of the neck; the nape.
nuchal: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, ofthe neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in thecarapace of turtles.
nuciferous: Bearing, or producing, nuts.
nuciform: Shaped like a nut; nut-shaped.
nucin: See Juglone.
nucleate: Having a nucleus; nucleated.
nucleated: Having a nucleus; nucleate; as, nucleated cells.
nucleiform: Formed like a nucleus or kernel.
nuclein: A constituent of the nuclei of all cells. It is a colorlessamorphous substance, readily soluble in alkaline fluids andespecially characterized by its comparatively large content ofphosphorus. It also contains nitrogen and sulphur.
nucleobranch: Belonging to the Nucleobranchiata.-- n.
nucleobranchiata: See Heteropoda.
nucleoidioplasma: Hyaline plasma contained in the nucleus of vegetable cells.
nucleolar: Of or pertaining to the nucleolus of a cell.
nucleolated: Having a nucleole, or second inner nucleus.
nucleole: The nucleus within a nucleus; nucleolus.
nucleolus: A small rounded body contained in the nucleus of a cell or aprotozoan.
nucleoplasm: The matter composing the nucleus of a cell; the protoplasm ofthe nucleus; karyoplasma.
nucleoplasmic: Of or pertaining to nucleoplasm; -- esp. applied to a bodyformed in the developing ovum from the plasma of the nucleus of thegerminal vesicle.
nucleus: The body or the head of a comet.
nucula: A genus of small marine bivalve shells, having a pearlyinterior.
nucule: Same as Nutlet.
nucumentaceous: See Nucamentaceous.
nudation: The act of stripping, or making bare or naked.
nuddle: To walk quickly with the head bent forward; -- often withalong. [Prov. Eng.]
nude: Naked; without consideration; void; as, a nude contract. SeeNudum pactum. Blackstone. The nude, the undraped human figure in art.-- Nude"ly, adv.- Nude"ness, n.
nudge: To touch gently, as with the elbow, in order to call attentionor convey intimation.
nudibrachiate: Having tentacles without vibratile cilia. Carpenter.
nudibranch: Of or pertaining to the Nudibranchiata.-- n.
nudibranchiata: A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks, having no shellexcept while very young. The gills are naked and situated upon theback or sides. See Ceratobranchia.
nudibranchiate: Same as Nudibranch.
nudicaul: Having the stems leafless.
nudification: The act of making nude.
nudum pactum: A bare, naked contract, without any consideration. Tomlins.
nugacity: Futility; trifling talk or behavior; drollery. [R.] Dr. H.More.
nugae: Trifles; jests.
nugation: The act or practice of trifling. [R.] Bacon.
nugget: A lump; a mass, esp. a native lump of a precious metal; as, anugget of gold.
nugify: To render trifling or futile; to make silly. [R.] Coleridge.
nuisance: That which annoys or gives trouble and vexation; that which isoffensive or noxious.
nuisancer: One who makes or causes a nuisance.
nul: No; not any; as, nul disseizin; nul tort.
null: Of no legal or binding force or validity; of no efficacy;invalid; void; nugatory; useless.Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection;no more. Tennyson.
nullah: A water course, esp. a dry one; a gully; a gorge; -- orig. anEast Indian term.  E. Arnold.
nulled: Turned so as to resemble nulls. Nulled work (Cabinetwork),ornamental turned work resembling nulls or beads strung on a rod.
nullibiety: The state or condition of being nowhere. [Obs.]
nullification: The act of nullifying; a rendering void and of no effect, or ofno legal effect. Right of nullification (U. S. Hist.), the rightclaimed in behalf of a State to nullify or make void, by itssovereign act or decree, an enactment of the general government whichit deems unconstitutional.
nullifidian: Of no faith; also, not trusting to faith for salvation; --opposed to Ant
nullifier: One who nullifies or makes void; one who maintains the right tonullify a contract by one of the parties.
nullify: To make void; to render invalid; to deprive of legal force orefficacy.Such correspondence would at once nullify the conditions of theprobationary system. I. Taylor.
nullipore: A name for certain crustaceous marine algæ which secretecarbonate of lime on their surface, and were formerly thought to beof animal nature. They are now considered corallines of the generaMelobesia and Lithothamnion.
nullity: Nonexistence; as, a decree of nullity of marriage is a decreethat no legal marriage exists.
numb: To make numb; to deprive of the power of sensation or motion;to render senseless or inert; to deaden; to benumb; to stupefy.For lazy winter numbs the laboring hand. Dryden.Like dull narcotics, numbing pain. Tennyson.
numbedness: Numbness. [Obs.] Wiseman.
number: The distinction of objects, as one, or more than one (in somelanguages, as one, or two, or more than two), expressed (usually) bya difference in the form of a word; thus, the singular number and theplural number are the names of the forms of a word indicating theobjects denoted or referred to by the word as one, or as more thanone.
numberer: One who numbers.
numberful: Numerous. [Obs.]
numberless: Innumerable; countless.
numberous: Numerous. [Obs.] Drant.
numbers: of Number. The fourth book of the Pentateuch, containing thecensus of the Hebrews.
numbfish: The torpedo, which numbs by the electric shocks which it gives.
numbless: See Nombles.
numbness: The condition of being numb; that state of a living body inwhich it loses, wholly or in part, the power of feeling or motion.
numerable: Capable of being numbered or counted.
numerally: According to number; in number; numerically.
numerary: Belonging to a certain number; counting as one of a collectionor body.A supernumerary canon, when he obtains a prebend, becomes a numerarycanon. Ayliffe.
numerate: To divide off and read according to the rules of numeration;as, to numerate a row of figures.
numerative: Of or pertaining to numeration; as, a numerative system. Eng.Cyc.
numerator: The term in a fraction which indicates the number of fractionalunits that are taken.
numeric: Any number, proper or improper fraction, or incommensurableratio. The term also includes any imaginary expression like m + nsq.root-1, where m and n are real numerics.
numerically: In a numerical manner; in numbers; with respect to number, orsameness in number; as, a thing is numerically the same, ornumerically different.
numerist: One who deals in numbers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
numero: Number; -- often abbrev. No.
numidian: Of or pertaining to ancient Numidia in Northern Africa.Numidian crane. (Zoöl.) See Demoiselle, 2.
numismatics: The science of coins and medals.
numismatist: One skilled in numismatics; a numismatologist.
numismatography: A treatise on, or description of, coins and medals.
numismatologist: One versed in numismatology.
numismatology: The science which treats of coins and medals, in their relationto history; numismatics.
nummary: Of or relating to coins or money.
nummulation: The arrangement of the red blood corpuscles in rouleaux, likepiles of coins, as when a drop of human blood is examined under themicroscope.
nummulite: A fossil of the genus Nummulites and allied genera.
nummulites: A genus of extinct Tertiary Foraminifera, having a thin, flat,round shell, containing a large number of small chambers arrangedspirally.
nummulitic: Of, like, composed of, containing, nummulites; as, nummuliticbeds.
numps: A dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Bp. Parker.
numskull: A dunce; a dolt; a stupid fellow. [Colloq.]They have talked like numskulls. Arbuthnot.
numskulled: Stupid; doltish. [Colloq.]
nunatak: In Greenland, an insular hill or mountain surrounded by an icesheet.
nunc dimittis: The song of Simeon (Luke ii. 29-32), used in the ritual of manychurches. It begins with these words in the Vulgate.
nunchion: A portion of food taken at or after noon, usually between fullmeals; a luncheon. [Written also noonshun.] Hudibras.
nunciate: One who announces; a messenger; a nuncio. [Obs.] Hoole.
nunciature: The office of a nuncio. Clarendon.
nuncupation: The act of nuncupating. [Obs.]
nuncupatory: Nuncupative; oral.
nundinal: A nundinal letter.
nundinate: To buy and sell at fairs or markets. [Obs.]
nundination: Traffic at fairs; marketing; buying and selling. [Obs.]Common nundination of pardons. Abp. Bramhall.
nunnation: The pronunciation of n at the end of words.
nunnery: A house in which nuns reside; a cloister or convent in whichwomen reside for life, under religious vows. See Cloister, andConvent.
nunnish: Of, pertaining to, or resembling a nun; characteristic of anun.-- Nun"nish*ness, n.
nup: Same as Nupson. [Obs.]
nuphar: A genus of plants found in the fresh-water ponds or lakes ofEurope, Asia, and North America; the yellow water lily. Cf. Nymphaea.
nupson: A simpleton; a fool. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
nuptial: Of or pertaining to marriage; done or used at a wedding; as,nuptial rites and ceremonies.Then, all in heat, They light the nuptial torch. Milton.
nur: A hard knot in wood; also, a hard knob of wood used by boys inplaying hockey.I think I'm as hard as a nur, and as tough as whitleather. W. Howitt.
nurl: To cut with reeding or fluting on the edge of, as coins, theheads of screws, etc.; to knurl.
nurse: A lieutenant or first officer, who is the real commander whenthe captain is unfit for his place.
nursehound: See Houndfish.
nursemaid: A girl employed to attend children.
nursepond: A pond where fish are fed. Walton.
nurser: One who nurses; a nurse; one who cherishes or encouragesgrowth.
nurseryman: One who cultivates or keeps a nursery, or place for rearingtrees, etc.
nursing: Supplying or taking nourishment from, or as from, the breast;as, a nursing mother; a nursing infant.
nursling: One who, or that which, is nursed; an infant; a fondling.I was his nursling once, and choice delight. Milton.
nurstle: To nurse. See Noursle. [Obs.]
nustle: To fondle; to cherish. [Obs.]
nut: The fruit of certain trees and shrubs (as of the almond,walnut, hickory, beech, filbert, etc.), consisting of a hard andindehiscent shell inclosing a kernel.
nut-brown: Brown as a nut long kept and dried. "The spicy nutbrown ale."Milton.
nutant: Nodding; having the top bent downward.
nutation: A very small libratory motion of the earth's axis, by which itsinclination to the plane of the ecliptic is constantly varying by asmall amount.
nutgall: A more or less round gall resembling a nut, esp. one of thoseproduced on the oak and used in the arts. See Gall, Gallnut.
nuthatch: Any one of several species of birds of the genus Sitta, as theEuropean species (Sitta Europæa). The white-breasted nuthatch (S.Carolinensis), the red-breasted nuthatch (S. Canadensis), the pygmynuthatch (S. pygmæa), and others, are American.
nutjobber: The nuthatch. [Prov. Eng.]
nutlet: A small nut; also, the stone of a drupe.
nutmeg: The kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree (Myristicafragrans), a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated elsewherein the tropics.
nutmegged: Seasoned with nutmeg.
nutpecker: The nuthatch.
nutria: The fur of the coypu. See Coypu.
nutrication: The act or manner of feeding. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
nutrient: Nutritious; nourishing; promoting growth.-- n.
nutrimental: Nutritious.
nutritial: Pertaining to, or connected with, nutrition; nutritious. [Obs.]Chapman.
nutrition: In the broadest sense, a process or series of processes bywhich the living organism as a whole (or its component parts ororgans) is maintained in its normal condition of life and growth.
nutritional: Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, nutritional changes.
nutritious: Nourishing; promoting growth, or preventing decay; alimental.-- Nu*tri"tious*ly, adv.-- Nu*tri"tious*ness, n.
nutritive: Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, the nutritive functions;having the quality of nourishing; nutritious; nutrimental; alimental;as, nutritive food or berries. Nutritive plasma. (Biol.) SeeIdioplasma.-- Nutritive polyp (Zoöl.), any one of the zooids of a compoundhydroid, or coral, which has a mouth and digestive cavity.-- Nu"tri*tive*ly, adv.-- Nu"tri*tive*ness, n.
nutriture: Nutrition; nourishment. [Obs.] Harvey.
nutshell: A shell of the genus Nucula. To be, or lie, in a nutshell, tobe within a small compass; to admit of very brief or simpledetermination or statement. "The remedy lay in a nutshell." Macaulay.
nutter: A gatherer of nuts.
nutting: The act of gathering nuts.
nux vomica: The seed of Strychnos Nuxvomica, a tree which abounds on theMalabar and Coromandel coasts of the East Indies. From this seed thedeadly poisons known as strychnine and brucine are obtained. Theseeds are sometimes called Quaker buttons.
nuzzle: To nestle; to house, as in a nest.
ny: Not I; nor I. [Obs.]
nyas: See Nias.
nyctalops: One afflicted with nyctalopia.
nyctalopy: Same as Nyctalopia.
nycthemeron: The natural day and night, or space of twenty-four hours.
nyctibune: A South American bird of the genus Nyctibius, allied to thegoatsuckers.
nyctitropic: Turning or bending at night into special positions.
nyctitropism: The tendency of certain plant organs, as leaves, to assumespecial "sleeping" positions or make curvatures under the influenceof darkness. It is well illustrated in the leaflets of clover andother leguminous plants.
nyctophile: Any Australian bat of the genus Nyctophilus, having a verysimple nasal appendage.
nye: A brood or flock of pheasants.
nyentek: A carnivorous mannual (Helictis moscatus, or H. orientalis),native of Eastern Asia and the Indies. It has a dorsal white stripe,and another one across the shoulders. It has a strong musky odor.
nymph: A goddess of the mountains, forests, meadows, or waters.Where were ye, nymphs, when the remorseless deep Closed o'er the headof your loved Lycidas Milton.
nympha: Same as Nymph, 3.
nymphaea: A genus of aquatic plants having showy flowers (white, blue,pink, or yellow, often fragrant), including the white water lily andthe Egyptia lotus.
nymphal: Of or pertaining to a nymph or nymphs; nymphean.
nymphales: An extensive family of butterflies including the nymphs, thesatyrs, the monarchs, the heliconias, and others; -- called alsobrush-footed butterflies.
nymphean: Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, nymphs; inhabited bynymphs; as, a nymphean cave.
nymphet: A little or young nymph. [Poetic] "The nymphets sportingthere." Drayton.
nymphiparous: Producing pupas or nymphs.
nymphish: Relating to nymphs; ladylike. "Nymphish war." Drayton.
nympholepsy: A species of demoniac enthusiasm or possession coming upon onewho had accidentally looked upon a nymph; ecstasy. [R.] De Quincey.The nympholepsy of some fond despair. Byron.
nympholeptic: Under the influence of nympholepsy; ecstatic; frenzied.[Poetic]
nymphomania: Morbid and uncontrollable sexual desire in women, constitutinga true disease.
nymphomany: Same as Nymphomania.
nymphotomy: Excision of the nymphæ.
nys: Is not. See Nis. Chaucer. Spenser.
nystagmus: A rapid involuntary oscillation of the eyeballs.
nyula: A species of ichneumon (Herpestes nyula). Its fur isbeautifully variegated by closely set zigzag markings.
o: A prefix to Irish family names, which signifies grandson ordescendant of, and is a character of dignity; as, O'Neil, O'Carrol.
oad: See Woad. [Obs.] Coles.
oaf: Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies orgoblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.
oafish: Like an oaf; simple.-- Oaf"ish*ness, n.
oak: Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternateleaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. Thefruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or lessinclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are nowrecognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occurin the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other partsof North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts ofSouth America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grandproportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard andtough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming thesilver grain.
oaken: Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks. "In oakenbower." Milton.Oaken timber, wherewith to build ships. Bacon.
oaker: See Ocher. [Obs.] Spenser.
oakling: A young oak. Evelyn.
oaky: Resembling oak; strong. Bp. Hall.
oar: An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates. Oar cock(Zoöl), the water rail. [Prov. Eng.] -- Spoon oar, an oar having theblade so curved as to afford a better hold upon the water in rowing.-- To boat the oars, to cease rowing, and lay the oars in the boat.-- To feather the oars. See under Feather., v. t.-- To lie on the oars, to cease pulling, raising the oars out ofwater, but not boating them; to cease from work of any kind; to beidle; to rest.-- To muffle the oars, to put something round that part which restsin the rowlock, to prevent noise in rowing.-- To put in one's oar, to give aid or advice; -- commonly used of aperson who obtrudes aid or counsel not invited.-- To ship the oars, to place them in the rowlocks.-- To toss the oars, To peak the oars, to lift them from therowlocks and hold them perpendicularly, the handle resting on thebottom of the boat.-- To trail oars, to allow them to trail in the water alongside ofthe boat.-- To unship the oars, to take them out of the rowlocks.
oar-footed: Having feet adapted for swimming.
oarfish: The ribbon fish.
oarfoot: Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.
oarless: Without oars. Sylvester.
oarlock: The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, inwhich the oar rests in rowing.  See Rowlock.
oarsman: One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.
oarsweed: Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp.  SeeKelp.
oary: Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet.Milton. Addison.
oasis: A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandydesert.
oast: A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle. Mortimer.
oatcake: A cake made of oatmeal.
oath: An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superiorsanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to anindictment for perjury if the statement be false.
oathable: Capable of having an oath administered to. [Obs.] Shak.
oathbreaking: The violation of an oath; perjury. Shak
oatmeal: A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass.
ob-: A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely,etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to;obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against;obovate, reversely, ovate. Ob- is commonly assimilated before c, f,g, and p, to oc-, of-, og-, and op-.
obbe: See Obi.
obcompressed: Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a wayopposite to the usual one.
obcordate: Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inverselycordate
obdiplostemonous: Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer setbeing opposite the petals; -- said of flowers. Gray.
obdiplostemony: The condition of being obdiplostemonous.
obdormition: Sleep. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
obduce: To draw over, as a covering. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
obduct: To draw over; to cover. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
obduction: .The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering. [Obs.]
obduracy: The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness ofheart; obstinacy. "Obduracy and persistency." Shak.The absolute completion of sin in final obduracy. South.
obdurate: To harden. [Obs.]
obduration: A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart. [Obs.]
obdure: To harden. [Obs.] Milton.
obe: See Obi.
obeah: Same as Obi.-- a.
obedible: Obedient. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
obedienciary: One yielding obedience. [Obs.] Foxe.
obedient: Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey;submissive to restraint, control, or command.And floating straight, obedient to the stream. Shak.The chief his orders gives; the obedient band, With due observance,wait the chief's command. Pope.
obediential: According to the rule of obedience. [R.]An obediental subjection to the Lord of Nature. Sir M. Hale.
obediently: In an obedient manner; with obedience.
obeisancy: See Obeisance. [Obs.]
obeisant: Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilelysubmissive.
obelion: The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina wherethe closure of the sagittal suture usually begins.
obeliscal: Formed like an obelisk.
obelisk: A mark of reference; -- called also dagger [&dag;]. See Dagger,n., 2.
obelize: To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.[R.]
obelus: A mark [thus ---, or ÷]; -- so called as resembling a needle.In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passagesor readings.
obequitate: To ride about. [Obs.] -- Ob*eq`ui*ta"tion, n. [Obs.] Cockerman.
oberon: The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab.Shak.
oberration: A wandering about. [Obs.] Jonhson.
obese: Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.
obeseness: Quality of being obese; obesity.
obesity: The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.
obey: To give obedience.Will he obey when one commands Tennyson.
obeyer: One who yields obedience. Holland.
obeyingly: Obediently; submissively.
obfirmation: Hardness of heart; obduracy. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
obfuscate: Obfuscated; darkened; obscured. [Obs.] [Written alsooffuscate.] Sir. T. Elyot.
obfuscation: The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of beingdarkened. "Obfuscation of the cornea." E. Darwin.
obiism: Belief in, or the practice of, the obi superstitions and rites.
obimbricate: Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward.
obiter: In passing; incidentally; by the way. Obiter dictum (Law), anincidental and collateral opinion uttered by a judge. See Dictum, n.,2(a).
obitual: Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated;as, obitual days. Smart.
obituarily: In the manner of an obituary.
obituary: Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, anobituary notice; obituary poetry.
object: To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed byto. Sir. T. More.
objectable: Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forwardas an objection. [R.]
objectify: To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the characterof an object; to render objective. J. D. Morell.
objectionable: Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapprovedof; offensive; as, objectionable words.-- Ob*jec"tion*a*bly, adv.
objectist: One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy.Ed. Rev.
objectivate: To objectify.
objectivation: Converting into an object.
objective: Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having thenature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- anepithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which issimply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective.In the Middle Ages, subject meant substance, and has this sense inDescartes and Spinoza
objectively: In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate ideaobjectively in the mind.
objectiveness: Objectivity.Is there such a motion or objectiveness of external bodies, whichproduceth light Sir M. Hale
objectivity: The state, quality, or relation of being objective; characterof the object or of the objective.The calm, the cheerfulness, the disinterested objectivity havedisappeared [in the life of the Greeks]. M. Arnold.
objectize: To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in theposition of an object.In the latter, as objectized by the former, arise the emotions andaffections. Coleridge.
objectless: Having no object; purposeless.
objector: One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition ormeasure.
objibways: See Chippeways.
objicient: One who makes objection; an objector. [R.] Cardinal Wiseman.
objuration: A binding by oath. [R.] Abp. Bramhall.
objurgate: To chide; to reprove.
objurgation: The act of objurgating; reproof.While the good lady was bestowing this objurgation on Mr.Ben Allen.Dickens.With a strong objurgation of the elbow in his ribs. Landor.
objurgatory: Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressingreproof; culpatory. Bancroft.The objurgatory question of the Pharisees. Paley.
oblanceolate: Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward thepoint of attachment more than toward the apex.
oblate: Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblatespheroid.
oblateness: The quality or state of being oblate.
oblationer: One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence. Dr.H. More.
oblatrate: To bark or snarl, as a dog. [Obs.]
oblatration: The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling. Bp. Hall.
oblatum: An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of anellipse about its minor axis. Cf. Oblongum.
oblectate: To delight; to please greatly. [Obs.]
oblectation: The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased;delight. [R.] Feltham.
obligable: Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy. [R.]The main difference between people seems to be, that one man can comeunder obligations on which you can rely, -- is obligable; and anotheris not. Emerson.
obligation: A bond with a condition annexed, and a penalty fornonfulfillment. In a larger sense, it is an acknowledgment of a dutyto pay a certain sum or do a certain things. Days of obligation. Seeunder Day.
obligato: See Obbligato.
obligatorily: In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation. Foxe.
obligatoriness: The quality or state of being obligatory.
obligatory: Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation;requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followedby on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.As long as the law is obligatory, so long our obedience is due. Jer.Taylor.
obligee: The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom abond is given. Blackstone.
obligement: Obligation. [R.]I will not resist, therefore, whatever it is, either of divine orhuman obligement, that you lay upon me. Milton.
obliger: One who, or that which, obliges. Sir H. Wotton.
obliging: Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors;hence, helpful; civil; kind.Mons.Strozzi has many curiosities, and is very obliging to a strangerwho desires the sight of them. Addison.
obligor: The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.Blackstone.
oblique: An oblique line.
oblique-angled: Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle.
obliquely: In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly. "Truthobliquely leveled." Bp. Fell.Declining from the noon of day, The sun obliquely shoots his burningray. PopeHis discourse tends obliquely to the detracting from others. Addison.
obliqueness: Quality or state of being oblique.
oblite: Indistinct; slurred over. [Obs.] "Obscure and oblite mention."Fuller.
obliterate: Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects.
obliteration: The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated;extinction. Sir. M. Hale.
obliterative: Tending or serving to obliterate.
oblocutor: A disputer; a gainsayer. [Obs.] Bale.
oblong: Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular.
oblong-ovate: Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter.
oblongata: The medulla oblongata. B. G. Wilder.
oblongatal: Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar.
oblongish: Somewhat oblong.
oblongly: In an oblong form.
oblongness: State or quality of being oblong.
oblongum: A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of anellipse about its greater axis. Cf. Oblatum, and see Ellipsoid ofrevolution, under Ellipsoid.
obloquious: Containing obloquy; reproachful [R.] Naunton.
obluctation: A struggle against; resistance; opposition. [Obs.] Fotherby.
obnubilate: To cloud; to obscure. [Obs.] Burton.-- Ob*nu"bi*la"tion, n. [Obs.] Beddoes.
oboe: One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yetof great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone,somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded bymeans of a double reed; a hautboy. Oboe d'amore Etym
oboist: A performer on the oboe.
obolary: Possessing only small coins; impoverished. [R.] Lamb.
obole: A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of tengrains, or half a scruple. [Written also obol.]
obolize: See Obelize.
obolo: A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent invalue.
obomegoid: Obversely omegoid.
oboval: Obovate.
obovate: Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, anobovate leaf.
obreption: The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise. Bell.
obreptitious: Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealmentof the truth. [R.] Cotgrave.
obrogate: To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, insteadof by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one. [Obs.] Bailey.
obscenity: That quality in words or things which presents what isoffensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage oracts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of aspeech, or a picture.Mr.Cowley asserts plainly, that obscenity has no place in wit.Dryden.No pardon vile obscenity should find. Pope.
obscurant: One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders theprogress of knowledge and wisdom. Coleridge.
obscurantism: The system or the principles of the obscurants. C. Kingsley.
obscurantist: Same as Obscurant. Ed. Rev.
obscuration: The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured;as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse. Sir J. Herschel.
obscure: To render obscure; to darken; to make dim; to keep in the dark;to hide; to make less visible, intelligible, legible, glorious,beautiful, or illustrious.They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak, with obscuredlights. Shak.Why, 't is an office of discovery, love, And I should be obscured.Shak.There is scarce any duty which has been so obscured by the writingsof learned men as this. Wake.And seest not sin obscures thy godlike frame Dryden.
obscurely: In an obscure manner. Milton.
obscurement: The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured;obscuration. Pomfret.
obscureness: Obscurity. Bp. Hall.
obscurer: One who, or that which, obscures.
obscurity: The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy;inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty.Yuo are not for obscurity designed. Dryden.They were now brought forth from obscurity, to be contemplated byartists with admiration and despair. Macaulay.
obsecrate: To beseech; to supplicate; to implore. [R.]. Cockerman.
obsecration: A figure of speech in which the orator implores the assistanceof God or man.
obsecratory: Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory. [R.] Bp. Hall.
obsequent: Obedient; submissive; obsequious. [Obs.] Fotherby.
obsequience: Obsequiousness. [R.]
obsequies: See Obsequy.
obsequious: Of or pertaining to obsequies; funereal. [R.] "To do obsequioussorrow." Shak.
obsequiousness: The quality or state of being obsequious. South.
observable: Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable;remarkable. Sir. T. Browne.The difference is sufficiently observable. Southey.-- Ob*serv"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ob*serv"a*bly, adv.
observancy: Observance. [Obs.]
observandum: A thing to be observed. Swift.
observant: An Observantine.
observantine: One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess toadhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of thefounder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants.
observantly: In an observant manner.
observation car: A railway passenger car made so as to facilitate seeing thescenery en route; a car open, or with glass sides, or with a kind ofopen balcony at the rear.
observational: Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing,observations. Chalmers.
observative: Observing; watchful.
observatory: A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can notethe range and effect of the fire. Farrow.
observership: The office or work of an observer.
observing: Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to whatpasses; as, an observing person; an observing mind.-- Ob*serv"ing*ly, adv.
obsess: To besiege; to beset. Sir T. Elyot.
obsidian: A kind of glass produced by volcanoes. It is usually of a blackcolor, and opaque, except in thin splinters.
obsidional: Of or pertaining to a siege. Obsidional crown (Rom.Antiq.), acrown bestowed upon a general who raised the siege of a beleagueredplace, or upon one who held out against a siege.
obsigillation: A sealing up. [Obs.] Maunder.
obsign: To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp. [Obs.] Bradford.
obsignate: To seal; to ratify. [Obs.] Barrow.
obsignation: The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed orconfirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit.The spirit of manifestation will but upbraid you in the shame andhorror of a sad eternity, if you have not the spirit of obsignation.Jer. Taylor.
obsignatory: Ratifying; confirming by sealing. [Obs.] Samuel Ward (1643)
obsolesce: To become obsolescent. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.
obsolescence: The state of becoming obsolete.
obsolescent: Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude.
obsolete: Not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; imperfectly developed;abortive.
obsoletely: In an obsolete manner.
obsoleteness: Indistinctness; want of development.
obsoletism: A disused word or phrase; an archaism. Fitzed. Hall.
obstacle: That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hindersprogress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral.If all obstacles were cut away. And that my path were even to thecrown. Shak.
obstancy: Opposition; impediment; obstruction. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
obstetricate: To perform the office of midwife. [Obs.] "Nature doesobstetricate." Evelyn.
obstetrication: The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
obstetrician: One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.
obstetricious: Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitatingany bringing forth or deliverance. [Obs.]Yet is all human teaching but maieutical, or obstetricious. Cudworth.
obstetrics: The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women inparturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth.
obstetricy: Obstetrics. [R.] Dunglison.
obstination: Obstinacy; stubbornness. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
obstipation: Extreme constipation. [Obs.] Hooper.
obstreperous: Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous;noisy; vociferous. "The obstreperous city." Wordsworth. "Obstreperousapprobation." Addison.Beating the air with their obstreperous beaks. B. Jonson.-- Ob*strep"er*ous*ly, adv.-- Ob*strep"er*ous*ness, n.
obstriction: The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that whichconstrains or obliges; obligation; bond. [R.] Milton.
obstringe: To constrain; to put under obligation. [R.] Bp. Gardiner.
obstructer: One who obstructs or hinders.
obstructionism: The act or the policy of obstructing progress. Lond. Lit.World.
obstructionist: One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in alegislative body.-- a.
obstructive: Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causingimpediment.-- Ob*struct"ive*ly, adv.
obstruent: Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruentmedicine. Johnson.
obstupefaction: See Stupefaction. [Obs.] Howell.
obstupefactive: Stupefactive. [Obs.]
obstupefy: See Stupefy. [Obs.]
obtainable: Capable of being obtained.
obtainer: One who obtains.
obtainment: The act or process of obtaining; attainment. Milton.
obtected: Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certainfiles.
obtemper: To obey (a judgment or decree).
obtemperate: To obey. [Obs.] Johnson.
obtenebration: The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness.[Obs.]In every megrim or vertigo, there is an obtenebration joined with asemblance of turning round. Bacon.
obtension: The act of obtending. [Obs.] Johnson.
obtest: To protest. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
obtestation: The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation. [R.]Antonio asserted this with great obtestation. Evelyn.
obtrectation: Slander; detraction; calumny. [Obs.] Barrow.
obtrude: To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; tointrude.
obtruder: One who obtrudes. Boyle.
obtruncate: To deprive of a limb; to lop. [R.]
obtruncation: The act of lopping or cutting off. [R.] Cockeram.
obtrusionist: One who practices or excuses obtrusion. [R.] Gent. Mag.
obtrusive: Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's selfor one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward;pushing; intrusive.-- Ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.-- Ob*tru"sive*ness, n.Not obvious, not obtrusive, but retired. Milton.
obtund: To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; toblunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall.[Archaic] Harvey.They...have filled all our law books with the obtunding story oftheir suits and trials. Milton.
obtundent: A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation,usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the sameas demulcent. Forsyth.
obtunder: That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which bluntssensibility.
obturate: To stop or close, as an opening; specif., (Ordnance),
obturation: The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening. "Deaf by anoutward obturation." Bp. Hall.
obturator: An apparatus designed to close an unnatural opening, as afissure of the palate.
obtusangular: See Obstuseangular.
obtuse: Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.
obtusely: In an obtuse manner.
obtuseness: State or quality of being obtuse.
obtusity: Obtuseness. Lond. Quart. Rev.
obumbrant: Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers.
obumbrate: To shade; to darken; to cloud. [R.] Howell.
obumbration: Act of darkening or obscuring. [R.] Sir T. More.
obuncous: Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree. Maunder.
obvention: The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually;an incidental advantage; an occasional offering. [Obs.] "Tithes andother obventions." Spenser.Legacies bequeathed by the deaths of princes and great persons, andother casualities and obventions. Fuller.
obversant: Conversant; familiar. [Obs.] Bacon.
obverse: Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than thetop, as a leaf.
obversely: In an obverse manner.
obversion: The act of immediate inference, by which we deny the oppositeof anything which has been affirmed; as, all men are mortal; then, byobversion, no men are immortal. This is also described as "immediateinference by privative conception." Bain.
obvert: To turn toward.If its base be obverted towards us. I. Watts.
obviation: The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.
obvious: Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, inbotany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edgeoverlapping the nearest edge of the other, and secondarily to acircle of several leaves or petals which thus overlap.
oby: See Obi.
oca: A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, andO. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers.
ocarina: A kind of small simple wind instrument.
occamy: An alloy imitating gold or silver. [Written also ochimy,ochymy, etc.]
occasion: To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to induce; as, tooccasion anxiety. South.If we inquire what it is that occasions men to make severalcombinations of simple ideas into distinct modes. Locke.
occasionable: Capable of being occasioned or caused. Barrow.
occasionalism: The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certaintheories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to theintervention of the First Cause, by which they account for theapparent reciprocal action of the soul and the body.
occasionality: Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence.[R.]
occasionally: In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as conveniencerequires or opportunity offers; not regularly. Stewart.The one, Wolsey, directly his subject by birth; the other, hissubject occasionally by his preferment. Fuller.
occasionate: To occasion. [Obs.]The lowest may occasionate much ill. Dr. H. More.
occasioner: One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces. Bp.Sanderson.
occasive: Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending;western.
occecation: The act of making blind, or the state of being blind. [R.]"This inward occecation." Bp. Hall.
occident: The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in theevening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; --opposed to orient. Specifically, in former times, Europe as opposedto Asia; now, also, the Western hemisphere. Chaucer.I may wander from east to occident. Shak.
occidentals: Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals. Shipley.
occiduous: Western; occidental. [R.] Blount.
occipital: Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, orto the occipital bone. Occipital bone (Anat.), the bone which formsthe posterior segment of the skull and surrounds the great foramen bywhich the spinal cord leaves the cranium. In the higher vertebratesit is usually composed of four bones, which become consolidated inthe adult.-- Occipital point (Anat.), the point of the occiput in the mesialplane farthest from the ophryon.
occipito-: A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, theocciput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid.
occipitoaxial: Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, oraxis.
occiput: The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the regionof the occipital bone.
occision: A killing; the act of killing. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
occlude: To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially withrespect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude largevolumes of hydrogen.
occludent: Serving to close; shutting up.-- n.
occluse: Shut; closed. [Obs.] Holder.
occlusion: The transient approximation of the edges of a natural opening;imperforation. Dunglison. Occlusion of gases (Chem. & Physics), thephenomenon of absorbing gases, as exhibited by platinum, palladium,iron, or charcoal; thus, palladium absorbs, or occludes, nearly athousand times its own volume of hydrogen, and in this case achemical compound seems to be formed.
occrustate: To incrust; to harden. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
occult: Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret;concealed; unknown.It is of an occult kind, and is so insensible in its advances as toescape observation. I. Taylor.Occult line (Geom.), a line drawn as a part of the construction of afigure or problem, but not to appear in the finished plan.-- Occult qualities, those qualities whose effects only wereobserved, but the nature and relations of whose productive agencieswere undetermined; -- so called by the schoolmen.-- Occult sciences, those sciences of the Middle Ages which relatedto the supposed action or influence of occult qualities, orsupernatural powers, as alchemy, magic, necromancy, and astrology.
occultation: The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention ofsome other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipsesof stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellitesof planets by their primaries.
occulted: Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as astar by the moon.
occulting: Same as Occultation.
occultism: A certain Oriental system of theosophy. A. P. Sinnett.
occultist: An adherent of occultism.
occultly: In an occult manner.
occultness: State or quality of being occult.
occupancy: The act of taking or holding possession; possession;occupation. Title by occupancy (Law), a right of property acquired bytaking the first possession of a thing, or possession of a thingwhich belonged to nobody, and appropriating it. Blackstone. Kent.
occupate: To occupy. [Obs.] Bacon.
occurrent: Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental.
occurse: Same as Occursion. [Obs.] Bentley.
occursion: A meeting; a clash; a collision. [Obs.] Boyle.
ocean: Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves;an ocean stream. Milton.
oceanography: A description of the ocean.
oceanology: That branch of science which relates to the ocean.
oceanus: The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believedto flow around the whole earth.
ocellary: Of or pertaining to ocelli.
ocellate: Same as Ocellated.
oceloid: Resembling the ocelot.
ocelot: An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges fromthe Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered withblackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged.The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow.
ochery: Ocherous. [Written also ochrey, ochry.]
ochimy: See Occamy.
ochlesis: A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together ofmany persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof. G. Gregory.
ochlocracy: A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy. Hare.
ochraceous: Ocherous.
ochre: See Ocher.
ochrea: A greave or legging.
ochreous: See Ocherous.
ochrey: See Ochery.
ochroleucous: Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow. Gray.
ochry: See Ochery.
ochymy: See Occamy.
ocra: See Okra.
ocrea: See Ochrea.
octa-: A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-.
octachord: An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones. [Alsowritten octochord.]
octad: An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or isoctavalent.
octaedral: See Octahedral.
octaemeron: A fast of eight days before a great festival. Shipley.
octagon: A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.
octagonal: Having eight sides and eight angles.
octagynous: Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous.
octahedral: Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in,octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage. Octahedral borax (Chem.), boraxobtained from a saturated solution in octahedral crystals, whichcontain five molecules of water of crystallization; distinguishedfrom common or prismatic borax.-- Octahedral iron ore (Min.), magnetite.
octahedrite: Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals.
octahedron: A solid bounded by eight faces. The regular octahedron iscontained by eight equal equilateral triangles.
octamerous: Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower;octamerous mesenteries in polyps.
octameter: A verse containing eight feet; as, --Deep'' in|to'' the | dark''ness | peer''ing, | long'' I | stood''there | wond'''ring, | fear''ing. Poe.
octander: One of the Octandria.
octandria: A Linnæan class of plants, in which the flowers have eightstamens not united to one another or to the pistil.
octane: Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of themethane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile,inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzeneor ligroin.
octangular: Having eight angles; eight-angled.-- Oc*tan"gu*lar*ness, n.
octant: The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.
octapla: A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3dcentury, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it,arranged in eight parallel columns.
octaroon: See Octoroon.
octastyle: See Octostyle.
octateuch: A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight booksof the Old Testament. [R.]
octavalent: Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with,exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said ofcertain atoms or radicals.
octave: The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verseseach; a stanza of eight lines.With mournful melody it continued this octave. Sir P. Sidney.Double octave. (Mus.) See under Double.-- Octave flute (Mus.), a small flute, the tones of which range anoctave higher than those of the German or ordinary flute; -- calledalso piccolo. See Piccolo.
octavo: A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eightleaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book somade; -- usually written 8vo or 8º.
octene: Same as Octylene.
octennial: Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eightyears. Johnson.-- Oc*ten"ni*al*ly, adv.
octet: A composition for eight parts, usually for eight soloinstruments or voices.
octic: Of the eighth degree or order.-- n. (Alg.)
octile: Same as Octant, 2. [R.]
octillion: According to the French method of numeration (which method isfollowed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unitwith twenty-seven ciphers annexed. According to the English method,the number expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers annexed. SeeNumeration.
octoate: A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate.
octocera: Octocerata.
octocerata: A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, andallied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called alsoOctopoda.
octochord: See Octachord.
octodecimo: Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form,book, leaf, size, etc.
octodentate: Having eight teeth.
octodont: Of or pertaining to the Octodontidæ, a family of rodents whichincludes the coypu, and many other South American species.
octoedrical: See Octahedral. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
octofid: Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx.
octogamy: A marrying eight times. [R.] Chaucer.
octogenarian: A person eighty years, or more, of age.
octogenary: Of eighty years of age. "Being then octogenary." Aubrey.
octogild: A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times thevalue of the thing.
octogonal: See Octagonal. [Obs.]
octogynia: A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.
octoic: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- usedspecifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the mostimportant of which is called caprylic acid.
octolocular: Having eight cells for seeds.
octonaphthene: A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series,occurring in Caucasian petroleum.
octonary: Of or pertaining to the number eight. Dr. H. More.
octonocular: Having eight eyes. Derham.
octopede: An animal having eight feet, as a spider.
octopetalous: Having eight petals or flower leaves.
octopod: One of the Octocerata.
octopodia: Same as Octocerata.
octopus: A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species,some of them of large size. See Devilfish,
octoradiated: Having eight rays.
octoroon: The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.
octospermous: Containing eight seeds.
octostichous: In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem.
octostyle: Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple orportico. The Parthenon is octostyle, but most large Greek temples arehexastele. See Hexastyle.-- n.
octosyllable: Octosyllabic.
octoyl: A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essentialresidue of octoic acid.
octuor: See Octet. [R.]
octuple: Eightfold.
octyl: A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essentialresidue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octylalcohol.
octylene: Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of theethylene series. In general they are combustible, colorless liquids.
octylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylicether.
ocular: Of or pertaining to the eye; optic.
ocularly: By the eye, or by actual sight.
oculary: Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, ocularymedicines. Holland.
oculiform: In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiformpebble.
oculina: A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a veryvolid texture.
oculinacea: A suborder of corals including many reef-building species,having round, starlike calicles.
oculist: One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.
oculo-: A combining form from L. oculus the eye.
oculomotor: Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- appliedespecially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranialnerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.-- n.
oculonasal: Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, theoculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.
oculus: A round window, usually a small one.
ocypodian: One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand alongthe seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name.
od: An alleged force or natural power, supposed, by Reichenbach andothers, to produce the phenomena of mesmerism, and to be developed byvarious agencies, as by magnets, heat, light, chemical or vitalaction, etc.; -- called also odyle or the odylic force. [Archaic]That od force of German Reichenbach Which still, from female fingertips, burnt blue. Mrs. Browning.
odal: Among the early and medieval Teutonic peoples, esp.Scandinavians, the heritable land held by the various odalmenconstituting a family or kindred of freeborn tribesmen; also, theownership of such land. The odal was subject only to certain rightsof the family or kindred in restricting the freedom of transfer orsale and giving certain rights of redemption in case of change ofownership by inheritance, etc., and perhaps to other rights of thekindred or the tribe. Survivals of the early odal estates and tenureexist in Orkney and Shetland, where it is usually called by thevariant form udal.
odalisque: A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan.[Written also odahlic, odalisk, and odalik.]Not of those that men desire, sleek Odalisques, or oracles of mode.Tennyson.
odd fellow: A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled theIndependent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid andsocial enjoyment.
oddly: In a manner measured by an odd number.
oddment: An odd thing, or one that is left over, disconnected,fragmentary, or the like; something that is separated or disconnectedfrom its fellows; esp. (in pl.),
ode: A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung;a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noblesentiment and appropriate dignity of style.Hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles. Shak.O! run; prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at hisblessed feet. Milton.Ode factor, one who makes, or who traffics in, odes; -- usedcontemptuously.
odelet: A little or short ode.
odelsthing: The lower house of the Norwegian Storthing. See Legislature.
odeon: A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatictheater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted theirworks to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; --hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramaticperformances.
odeum: See Odeon.
odible: Fitted to excite hatred; hateful. [Obs.] Bale.
odic: Of or pertaining to od. See Od. [Archaic] -- Od"ic*al*ly, adv.
odin: The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden,of the German tribes.There in the Temple, carved in wood, The image of great Odin stood.Longfellow.
odinic: Of or pertaining to Odin.
odinism: Worship of Odin; broadly, the Teutonic heathenism. --O"din*ist, n.
odist: A writer of an ode or odes.
odize: To charge with od. See Od. [Archaic]
odmyl: A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil.It has an unpleasant garlic odor.
odometer: An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measurethe distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, whichregisters the miles and rods traversed.
odometrical: Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made withit.
odometrous: Serving to measure distance on a road. [R.] Sydney Smith.
odometry: Measurement of distances by the odometer.
odonata: The division of insects that includes the dragon flies.
odontalgia: Toothache.
odontalgic: Of or pertaining to odontalgia.-- n.
odontalgy: Same as Odontalgia.
odontiasis: Cutting of the teeth; dentition.
odonto-: A combining form from Gr.
odontoblast: One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface ofthe pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast. They are supposed to beconnected with the formation of dentine.
odontocete: A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins,etc.; the toothed whales.
odontogeny: Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth.
odontograph: An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teethof gear wheels.
odontographic: Of or pertaining to odontography.
odontography: A description of the teeth.
odontolcae: An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth,which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, andallied genera. See Hesperornis. [Written also Odontholcae, andOdontoholcae.]
odontolite: A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. Itis used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called boneturquoise.
odontology: The science which treats of the teeth, their structure anddevelopment.
odontophora: Same as Cephalophora.
odontophore: A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, exceptbivalves. It consists of several muscles and a cartilage whichsupports a chitinous radula, or lingual ribbon, armed with teeth.Also applied to the radula alone. See Radula.
odontophorous: Having an odontophore.
odontoplast: An odontoblast.
odontopteryx: An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, ordentated, but destitute of true teeth. It was found near London.
odontornithes: A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, asin most other vertebrates. They have been divided into three orders:Odontolcæ, Odontotormæ, and Saururæ.
odontostomatous: Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects.
odontotormae: An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets,as in the genus Ichthyornis. See Ichthyornis.
odor: Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume.Meseemed I smelt a garden of sweet flowers, That dainty odors fromthem threw around. Spenser.To be in bad odor, to be out of favor, or in bad repute.
odorament: A perfume; a strong scent. [Obs.] Burton.
odorant: Yielding odors; fragrant. Holland.
odorate: Odorous. [Obos.] Bacon.
odorating: Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant.
odoriferous: Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent;fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes. Milton.-- O`dor*if"er*ous*ly, adv. --O`dor*if"er*ous*ness, n.
odorine: A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil.[Obs.]
odorless: Free from odor.
odorous: Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor;fragrant; sweet-smelling. "Odorous bloom." Keble.Such fragrant flowers do give most odorous smell. Spenser.-- O"dor*ous*ly, adv.-- O"dor*ous*ness, n.
ods: A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths andejaculatory phrases. "Ods bodikin." "Ods pity." Shak.
odylic: Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force. [Archaic]
odyssey: An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return ofUlysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.
oe: a diphthong, employed in the Latin language, and thence in theEnglish language, as the representative of the Greek diphthong oe. Inmany words in common use, e alone stands instead of oe. Classicistsprefer to write the diphthong oe separate in Latin words.
oecoid: The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red bloodcorpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substancesof the corpuscles, may be dissolved out.
oecology: The various relations of animals and plants to one another andto the outer world.
oeconomical: See Economical.
oeconomics: See Economics.
oeconomy: See Economy.
oecumenical: See Ecumenical.
oedema: A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissuebeneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneouscellular tissue. [Written also edema.]
oedematous: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.
oeil-de-boeuf: A circular or oval window; -- generally used of architecture ofthe 17th and 18th centuries. A famous room in the palace ofVersailles bears this name, from the oval window opening into it.
oeil-de-perdrix: A glance of the eye; an amorous look. [Obs.]She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks. Shak.
oelet: An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet. [Obs.] Holland.
oenanthate: A salt of the supposed oenanthic acid.
oenanthic: Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet ofwine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whoseethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, oraroma, of old wine. Cf. OEnanthylic. OEnanthic acid, an acid obtainedfrom oenanthic ether by the action of alkalies.-- OEnanthic ether, an ethereal substance (not to be confused withthe bouquet, or aroma, of wine) found in wine lees, and consisting ofa complex mixture of the ethereal salts of several of the higheracids of the acetic acid series. It has an ethereal odor, and it usedin flavoring artificial wines and liquors. Called also oil of wine.See Essential oil, under Essential.
oenanthol: An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil,recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called alsooenanthaldehyde.
oenanthone: The ketone of oenanthic acid.
oenanthyl: A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthicacid, now known to be identical with heptyl.
oenanthylate: A salt of oenanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate.
oenanthylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl;specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identicalwith the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical withheptoic acid.
oenanthylidene: A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine.
oenanthylous: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed tobe the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture ofhigher acids, especially capric acid. [Obs.]
oenocyan: The coloring matter of red wines.
oenology: Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical.
oenomel: Wine mixed with honey; mead, [R.]
oenometer: See Alcoholometer.
oenophilist: A lover of wine. [R.] Thackeray.
oenothionic: Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, or ethylsulphuric, acid.
oersted: The C.G.S. unit of magnetic reluctance or resistance, equal tothe reluctance of a centimeter cube of air (or vacuum) betweenparallel faces. Also, a reluctance in which unit magnetomotive forcesets up unit flux.
oestrian: Of or pertaining to the gadflies.-- n.
oestrual: Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to bruteanimals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence.
oestruation: The state of being under oestrual influence, or of havingsexual desire.
oestrus: A genus of gadflies. The species which deposits its larvæ inthe nasal cavities of sheep is oestrus ovis.
of: In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from;belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety ofapplications; as:
off: In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:
offcut: A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, thatis cut off before folding.
offence: See Offense.
offend: To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause tosin or to fall. [Obs.]Who hath you misboden or offended. Chaucer.If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out... And if thy right handoffend thee, cut it off. Matt. v. 29, 3O.Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offendthem. Ps. cxix. 165.
offendant: An offender. [R.] Holland.
offender: One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; awrongdoer.I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders. 1 Kings i. 21.
offendress: A woman who offends. Shak.
offenseful: Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.[R.]
offenseless: Unoffending; inoffensive.
offensible: That may give offense. [Obs.]
offension: Assault; attack. [Obs.] Chaucer.
offensive: The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack;aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed todefensive. To act on the offensive, to be the attacking party.
offerable: Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered.
offerer: One who offers; esp., one who offers something to God inworship. Hooker.
offerture: Offer; proposal; overture. [Obs.]More offertures and advantages to his crown. Milton.
offhand: Instant; ready; extemporaneous; as, an offhand speech; offhandexcuses.-- adv.
office: The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics dischargethe duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries,stables, etc. [Eng.]As for the offices, let them stand at distance. Bacon.
office wire: Copper wire with a strong but light insulation, used in wiringhouses, etc.
officeholder: An officer, particularly one in the civil service; a placeman.
officer: Specifically, a commissioned officer, in distinction from awarrant officer. Field officer, General officer, etc. See underField, General. etc.-- Officer of the day (Mil.), the officer who, on a given day, hascharge for that day of the quard, prisoners, and police of the postor camp.-- Officer of the deck, or Officer of the watch (Naut.), the officertemporarily in charge on the deck of a vessel, esp. a war vessel.
official: Approved by authority; sanctioned by the pharmacopoeia;appointed to be used in medicine; as, an official drug orpreparation. Cf. Officinal.
officialism: The state of being official; a system of official government;also, adherence to office routine; red-tapism.Officialism may often drift into blunders. Smiles.
officiality: See Officialty.
officially: By the proper officer; by virtue of the proper authority; inpursuance of the special powers vested in an officer or office; as,accounts or reports officially vertified or rendered; lettersofficially communicated; persons officially notified.
officialty: The charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official.Ayliffe.
officiant: The officer who officiates or performs an office, as the burialoffice. Shipley.
officiary: Of or pertaining to an office or an officer; official. [R.]Heylin.
officiate: To act as an officer in performing a duty; to transact thebusiness of an office or public trust; to conduct a public service.Bp. Stillingfleet.
officiator: One who officiates. Tylor.
officinal: Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs andmedicines as may be obtained without special preparation orcompounding; not magistral.
offing: That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, orwhere there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance fromthe shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in theoffing.
offish: Shy or distant in manner. [Colloq. U.S.]
offlet: A pipe to let off water.
offprint: A reprint or excerpt.
offscouring: That which is scoured off; hence, refuse; rejected matter; thatwhich is vile or despised. Lam. iii. 45.
offscum: Removed scum; refuse; dross.
offset: In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against,something; as
offshoot: That which shoots off or separates from a main stem, channel,family, race, etc.; as, the offshoots of a tree.
offshore: From the shore; as, an offshore wind; an offshore signal.
offskip: That part of a landscape which recedes from the spectator intodistance. [R.] Fairholt.
offtake: See Obfuscate, Obfuscation. [Obs.]
oft: Often; frequently; not rarely; many times. [Poetic] Chaucer.Oft she rejects, but never once offends. Pope.
often: Frequently; many times; not seldom.
oftenness: Frequency. Hooker.
oftensith: Frequently; often. [Obs.]For whom I sighed have so oftensith. Gascoigne.
oftentide: Frequently; often. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne.
oftentimes: Frequently; often; many times. Wordsworth.
ofter: Compar. of Oft. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ofttimes: Frequently; often. Milton.
ogam: Same as Ogham.
ogdoad: A thing made up of eight parts. Milman.
ogdoastich: A poem of eight lines. [Obs.] Selden
ogee: A molding, the section of which is the form of the letter S,with the convex part above; cyma reversa. See Illust. under Cyma.
ogganition: Snarling; grumbling. [R.] Bp. Montagu.
ogham: A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish,and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc. [Written alsoogam.]
ogive: The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally.
ogle: To view or look at with side glances, as in fondness, or with adesign to attract notice.And ogling all their audience, ere they speak. Dryden.
ogler: One who ogles. Addison.
oglio: See Olio.
ogre: An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, wholived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster.His schoolroom must have resembled an ogre's den. Maccaulay.
ogreish: Resembling an ogre; having the character or appearance of anogre; suitable for an ogre. "An ogreish kind of jocularity." Dickens.
ogress: A female ogre. Tennyson.
ogygian: Of or pertaining to Ogyges, a mythical king of ancient Attica,or to a great deluge in Attica in his days; hence, primeval; ofobscure antiquity.
oh: An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to thetone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or awish. See the Note under O.
ohm: The standard unit in the measure of electrical resistance,being the resistance of a circuit in which a potential difference ofone volt produces a current of one ampére. As defined by theInternational Electrical Congress in 1893, and by United StatesStatute, it is a resistance substantially equal to 109 units ofresistance of the C.G.S. system of electro-magnetic units, and isrepresented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electriccurrent by a column of mercury at the temperature of melting ice14.4521 grams in mass, of a constant cross-sectional area, and of thelength of 106.3 centimeters. As thus defined it is called theinternational ohm. Ohm's law (Elec.), the statement of the fact thatthe strength or intensity of an electrical current is directlyproportional to the electro-motive force, and inversely proportionalto the resistance of the circuit.
ohmmeter: An instrument for indicating directly resistance in ohms.
oho: An exclamation of surprise, etc.
oidium: A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filamentson decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus arenow believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera,among them the vine mildew (Oïdium Tuckeri), which has caused muchinjury to grapes.
oil: Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances,not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc.They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of variedcomposition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, foranointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, anysubstance of an oily consistency; as, oil of vitriol.
oilbird: See Guacharo.
oilcloth: Cloth treated with oil or paint, and used for marking garments,covering flooors, etc.
oiled: Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil.Oiled silk, silk rendered waterproof by saturation with boiled oil.
oilery: The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a makerof, or dealer in, oils.
oiliness: The quality of being oily. Bacon.
oilman: One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils andpickles.
oilnut: The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo.
oilskin: Cloth made waterproof by oil.
oilstone: A variety of hone slate, or whetstone, used for whetting toolswhen lubricated with oil.
oinement: Ointment. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oinomania: See oenomania.
oint: To anoint. [Obs.] Dryden.
ointment: That which serves to anoint; any soft unctuous substance usedfor smearing or anointing; an unguent.
ojibways: Same as Chippeways.
ojo: A spring, surrounded by rushes or rank grass; an oasis.[Southwestern U.S.] Bartlett.
okapi: A peculiar mammal (Okapia johnostoni) closely related to thegiraffe, discovered in the deep forests of Belgian Kongo in 1900. Itis smaller than an ox, and somewhat like a giraffe, except that theneck is much shorter. Like the giraffe, it has no dewclaws. There isa small prominence on each frontal bone of the male. The color of thebody is chiefly reddish chestnut, the cheeks are yellowish white, andthe fore and hind legs above the knees and the haunches are stripedwith purplish black and cream color.
okenite: A massive and fibrous mineral of a whitish color, chieflyhydrous silicate of lime.
oker: See Ocher.
okra: An annual plant (Abelmoschus, or Hibiscus, esculentus), whosegreen pods, abounding in nutritious mucilage, are much used forsoups, stews, or pickles; gumbo. [Written also ocra and ochra.]
olay: Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a stylepointed with steel. [Written also ola.] Balfour (Cyc. of India).
old: Open country. [Obs.] See World. Shak.
old dominion: Virginia; -- a name of uncertain origin, perh. from the olddesignation of the colony as "the Colony and Dominion of Virginia."
old lang syne: See Auld lang syne.
old line state: Maryland; a nickname, alluding to the fact that its northernboundary in Mason and Dixon's line.
old-fashioned: Formed according to old or obsolete fashion or pattern;adhering to old customs or ideas; as, an old-fashioned dress, girl."Old-fashioned men of wit." Addison.This old-fashioned, quaint abode. Longfellow.
old-gentlemanly: Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one. Byron.
old-maidish: Like an old maid; prim; precise; particular.
old-maidism: The condition or characteristics of an old maid. G. Eliot.
old-womanish: Like an old woman; anile.-- Old`-wom"an*ish*ness, n.
olden: Old; ancient; as, the olden time. "A minstrel of the oldenstamp." J. C. Shairp.
oldish: Somewhat old.
oldness: The state or quality of being old; old age.
oldster: An old person. [Jocular] H. Kingsley.
olea: A genus of trees including the olive.
oleaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants(Oleaceæ), mostly trees and shrubs, of which the olive is the type.It includes also the ash, the lilac, the true jasmine, and fringetree.
oleaginous: Having the nature or qualities of oil; oily; unctuous.
oleaginousness: Oiliness. Boyle.
oleamen: A soft ointment prepared from oil. Dunglison.
oleander: A beautiful evergreen shrub of the Dogbane family, havingclusters of fragrant red or white flowers. It is native of the EastIndies, but the red variety has become common in the south of Europe.Called also rosebay, rose laurel, and South-sea rose.
oleandrine: One of several alkaloids found in the leaves of the oleander.
oleate: A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury,are used in medicine by way of inunction.
olecranal: Of or pertaining to the olecranon.
olecranon: The large process at the proximal end of the ulna whichprojects behind the articulation with the humerus and forms the bonyprominence of the elbow.
olefiant: Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating acolorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene. [Archaic]
olefine: Olefiant gas, or ethylene; hence, by extension, any one of theseries of unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is a type. SeeEthylene.
oleic: Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleicacid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glycerylin the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils,such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid iscrystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14
oleiferous: Producing oil; as, oleiferous seeds.
olein: A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying attemperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal andvegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin). It dissolves solid fats,especially at 30-40° C. Chemically, olein is a glyceride of oleicacid; and, as three molecules of the acid are united to one moleculeof glyceryl to form the fat, it is technically known as triolein. Itis also called elain.
olent: Scented. [R.] R. Browning.
oleo oil: An oil expressed from certain animal fats (esp. beef suet), thegreater portion of the solid fat, or stearin, being left behind. Itis mixture of olein, palmitin, and a little stearin.
oleograph: The form or figure assumed by a drop of oil when placed uponwater or some other liquid with which it does not mix.
oleometer: An instrument for ascertaining the weight and purity of oil; anelaiometer.
oleone: An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, andprobably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid.
oleoptene: See Eleoptene. [R.]
oleoresin: A natural mixture of a terebinthinate oil and a resin.
oleosity: The state or quality of being oily or fat; fatness. [R.] B.Jonson.
oleraceous: Pertaining to pot herbs; of the nature or having the qualitiesof herbs for cookery; esculent. Sir T. Browne.
olf: The European bullfinch. [Prov.Eng.]
olfaction: The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organsby the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived.
olfactive: See Olfactory, a.
olfactor: A smelling organ; a nose. [R.]
olfactory: Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the sense of smell; as,the olfactory nerves; the olfactory cells. Olfactory organ (Anat.),an organ for smelling. In vertebrates the olfactory organs are moreor less complicated sacs, situated in the front part of the head andlined with epithelium innervated by the olfactory (or first cranial)nerves, and sensitive to odoriferous particles conveyed to it in theair or in water.
oliban: See Olibanum.
olibanum: The fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia;Oriental frankincense.
olibene: A colorless mobile liquid of a pleasant aromatic odor obtainedby the distillation of olibanum, or frankincense, and regarded as aterpene; -- called also conimene.
oligandrous: Having few stamens.
oliganthous: Having few flowers.
oligarch: A member of an oligarchy; one of the rulers in an oligarchicalgovernment.
oligarchal: Oligarchic. Glover.
oligarchist: An advocate or supporter of oligarchy.
oligarchy: A form of government in which the supreme power is placed inthe hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few.All oligarchies, wherein a few men domineer, do what they list.Burton.
oligist: Hematite or specular iron ore; -- prob. so called in allusionto its feeble magnetism, as compared with magnetite.
oligo-: A combining form from Gr. few, little, small.
oligocene: Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain strata which occupyan intermediate position between the Eocene and Miocene periods.-- n.
oligochaeta: An order of Annelida which includes the earthworms and relatedspecies.
oligochete: Of or pertaining to the Oligochæta.
oligoclase: A triclinic soda-lime feldspar. See Feldspar.
oligomerous: Having few members in each set of organs; as, an oligomerousflower.
oligomyold: Having few or imperfect syringeal muscles; -- said of somepasserine birds (Oligomyodi).
oligopetalous: Having few petals.
oligosepalous: Having few sepals.
oligosiderite: A meteorite characterized by the presence of but a small amountof metallic iron.
oligospermous: Having few seeds.
oligotokous: Producing few young.
olio: A collection of miscellaneous pieces.
olitory: Of or pertaining to, or produced in, a kitchen garden; used forkitchen purposes; as, olitory seeds.At convenient distance towards the olitory garden. Evelyn.
oliva: A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical,and often beautifully colored.
olivaceous: Resembling the olive; of the color of the olive; olive-green.
olivary: Like an olive. Olivary body (Anat.), an oval prominence on eachside of the medulla oblongata; -- called also olive.
olivaster: Of the color of the olive; tawny. Sir T. Herbert.
olive: An olivary body. See under Olivary.
olived: Decorated or furnished with olive trees. [R.] T. Warton.
olivenite: An olive-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of copper; oliveore.
oliver: An olive grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oliverian: An adherent of Oliver Cromwell. Macaulay.
olivil: A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation fromthe olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties.[Written also olivile.] Gregory.
olivin: A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; --called also olivite.
olivine: A common name of the yellowish green mineral chrysolite, esp.the variety found in eruptive rocks.
olivite: See Olivin.
ology: A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch ofknowledge.He had a smattering of mechanics, of physiology, geology, mineralogy,and all other ologies whatsoever. De Quincey.
olpe: Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids;afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout.
olusatrum: An umbelliferous plant, the common Alexanders of Western Europe(Smyrnium Olusatrum).
olympiad: A period of four years, by which the ancient Greeks reckonedtime, being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games toanother, beginning with the victory of Coroebus in the foot race,which took place in the year 776 b.c.; as, the era of the olympiads.
olympianism: Worship of the Olympian gods, esp. as a dominant cult orreligion.
olympionic: An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games. [R.] Johnson.
om: A mystic syllable or ejaculation used by Hindus and Buddhistsin religious rites, -- orig. among the Hindus an exclamation ofassent, like Amen, then an invocation, and later a symbol of thetrinity formed by Vishnu, Siva, and Brahma. -- Om mani padme hun, asacred formula of buddhism (esp. of the Lamaists) translated "O, theJewel in the Lotus, Amen," and referring to Amitabha, who is commonlyrepresented as standing or sitting within a lotus.
omagra: Gout in the shoulder.
omahas: A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the MissouriRiver. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation inNebraska.
omander wood: The wood of Diospyros ebenaster, a kind of ebony found inCeylon.
omasum: The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies,and Illust. under Ruminant.
ombre: A large Mediterranean food fish (Umbrina cirrhosa)
ombrometer: An instrument for measuring the rain that falls; a rain gauge.
omegoid: Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega (
omelet: Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in afrying pan; as, a plain omelet.
omen: An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of,some future event; any indication or action regarded as aforeshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury.Bid go with evil omen, and the brand Of infamy upon my name. Milton.
omened: Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omenedday.
omental: Of or pertaining to an omentum or the omenta.
omentum: A free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connectviscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.
omer: A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi.36.
omicron: Lit., the little, or short, O, o; the fifteenth letter of theGreek alphabet.
omiletical: Homiletical. [Obs.]
ominate: To presage; to foreshow; to foretoken. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
omination: The act of ominating; presaging. [Obs.] Fuller.
ominous: Of or pertaining to an omen or to omens; being or exhibiting anomen; significant; portentous; -- formerly used both in a favorableand unfavorable sense; now chiefly in the latter; foreboding orforeshowing evil; inauspicious; as, an ominous dread.He had a good ominous name to have made a peace. Bacon.In the heathen worship of God, a sacrifice without a heart wasaccounted ominous. South.-- Om"i*nous*ly, adv.-- Om"i*nous*ness, n.
omissible: Capable of being omitted; that may be omitted.
omissive: Leaving out; omitting. Bp. Hall.-- O*mis"sive*ly, adv.
omittance: The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted;forbearance; neglect. Shak.
omitter: One who omits. Fuller.
ommateal: Of or pertaining to an ommateum.
ommateum: A compound eye, as of insects and crustaceans.
ommatidium: One of the single eyes forming the compound eyes ofcrustaceans, insects, and other invertebrates.
omni-: A combining form denoting all, every, everywhere; as inomnipotent, all-powerful; omnipresent.
omnibus: A sheet-iron cover for articles in a leer or annealing arch, toprotect them from drafts. Omnibus bill, a legislative bill whichprovides for a number of miscellaneous enactments or appropriations.[Parliamentary Cant, U.S.] -- Omnibus box, a large box in a theater,on a level with the stage and having communication with it. [Eng.]Thackeray.
omnicorporeal: Comprehending or including all bodies; embracing all substance.[R.] Cudworth.
omniety: That which is all-pervading or all-comprehensive; hence, theDeity. [R.]Omniety formed nullity into an essence. Sir T. Browne.
omnifarious: Of all varieties, forms, or kinds. "Omnifarious learning."Coleridge.
omniferous: All-bearing; producing all kinds.
omnific: All-creating. "The omnific word." Milton.
omniform: Having every form or shape. Berkeley.
omniformity: The condition or quality of having every form. Dr. H. More.
omnify: To render universal; to enlarge. [R.]Omnify the disputed point into a transcendent, and you may defy theopponent to lay hold of it. Coleridge.
omnigenous: Consisting of all kinds. [R.]
omnigraph: A pantograph. [R.]
omniparient: Producing or bringing forth all things; all-producing. [R.]
omniparity: Equality in every part; general equality.
omniparous: Producing all things; omniparient.
omnipatient: Capable of enduring all things. [R.] Carlyle.
omnipercipient: Perceiving everything. Dr. H. More.
omnipotently: In an omnipotent manner.
omnipresence: Presence in every place at the same time; unbounded oruniversal presence; ubiquity.His omnipresence fills Land, sea, and air, and every kind that lives.Milton.
omnipresency: Omnipresence. [Obs.]
omnipresent: Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, theomnipresent Jehovah. Prior.
omnipresential: Implying universal presence. [R.] South.
omniprevalent: Prevalent everywhere or in all things. Fuller.
omniscience: The quality or state of being omniscient; -- an attributepeculiar to God. Dryden.
omnisciency: Omniscience.
omniscient: Having universal knowledge; knowing all things; infinitelyknowing or wise; as, the omniscient God.-- Om*nis"cient*ly, adv.For what can scape the eye Of God all-seeing, or deceive his heartOmniscient Milton.
omniscious: All-knowing. [Obs.] Hakewill.
omnispective: Beholding everything; capable of seeing all things; all-seeing.[R.] "Omnispective Power!" Boyse.
omnium: The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan togovernment is now usually funded. M'Culloch.
omnium-gatherum: A miscellaneous collection of things or persons; a confusedmixture; a medley. [Colloq. & Humorous] Selden.
omnivagant: Wandering anywhere and everywhere. [R.]
omnivora: A group of ungulate mammals including the hog and thehippopotamus. The term is also sometimes applied to the bears, and tocertain passerine birds.
omnivorous: All-devouring; eating everything indiscriminately; as,omnivorous vanity; esp. (Zoöl.), eating both animal and vegetablefood.-- Om*niv"o*rous*ness, n.
omo-: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula.
omohyoid: Of or pertaining to the shoulder and the hyoid bone; as, theomohyoid muscle.
omophagic: Eating raw flesh; using uncooked meat as food; as, omophagicfeasts, rites.
omoplate: The shoulder blade, or scapula.
omostegite: The part of the carapace of a crustacean situated behind thecervical groove.
omosternal: Of or pertaining to the omosternum.
omphacine: Of, pertaining to, or expressed from, unripe fruit; as,omphacine oil.
omphalic: Of or pertaining to the umbilicus, or navel.
omphalo-: A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to,the umbilicus, or navel.
omphalocele: A hernia at the navel.
omphalode: The central part of the hilum of a seed, through which thenutrient vessels pass into the rhaphe or the chalaza; -- called alsoomphalodium.
omphalomancy: Divination by means of a child's navel, to learn how manychildren the mother may have. Crabb.
omphalomesaraic: Omphalomesenteric.
omphalomesenteric: Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery;omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of afetus.
omphalopsychite: A name of the Hesychasts, from their habit of gazing upon thenavel.
omphalos: The navel.
omphalotomy: The operation of dividing the navel-string.
omy: Mellow, as land. [Prov.Eng.] Ray.
on: The general signification of on is situation, motion, orcondition with respect to contact or support beneath; as
on dit: They say, or it is said.-- n.
on-hanger: A hanger-on.
on-looker: A looker-on.
on-looking: Looking on or forward.
onager: A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones froma bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery. Fairholt.
onagga: The dauw.
onanism: Self-pollution; masturbation.
onappo: A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), notedfor its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey.
once: The ounce.
oncidium: A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of onespecies of which (O. Papilio) resembles a butterfly.
oncograph: An instrument for registering the changes observable with anoncometer.
oncometer: An instrument for measuring the variations in size of theinternal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc.
oncost: In cost accounting, expenditure which is involved in theprocess of manufacture or the performance of work and which cannot becharged directly to any particular article manufactured or work done(as where different kinds of goods are produced), but must beallocated so that each kind of goods or work shall bear its propershare. [Brit.]
oncotomy: The opening of an abscess, or the removal of a tumor, with acutting instrument. [Written also onkotomy.] Dunglison.
onde: Hatred; fury; envy. [Obs.]
ondogram: The record of an ondograph.
ondograph: An instrument for autographically recording the wave forms ofvarying currents, esp. rapidly varying alternating currents.
ondometer: An electric wave meter.
ondoyant: Wavy; having the surface marked by waves or slightly depressedfurrows; as, ondoyant glass.
one: Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one wouldhave well done, one should do one's self.It was well worth one's while. Hawthorne.Against this sort of condemnation one must steel one's self as onebest can. G. Eliot.
one-hand: Employing one hand; as, the one-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.
one-sided: Growing on one side of a stem; as, one-sided flowers.-- One`-sid"ed-ly, adv.-- One`-sid"ed*ness, n.
oneberry: The herb Paris. See Herb Paris, under Herb.
oneidas: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the region near OneidaLake in the State of New York, and forming part of the Five Nations.Remnants of the tribe now live in New York, Canada, and Wisconsin.
oneirocritic: An interpreter of dreams. Bp. Warburton. Addison.
oneiromancy: Divination by means of dreams. De Quincey.
oneiroscopist: One who interprets dreams.
oneiroscopy: The interpretation of dreams.
oneliness: The state of being one or single. [Obs.] Cudworth.
onely: See Only. [Obs.] Spenser.
onement: The state of being at one or reconciled. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
oneness: The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality;unity.Our God is one, or rather very oneness. Hooker.
onerary: Fitted for, or carrying, a burden. Johnson.
onerate: To load; to burden. [Obs.] Becon.
oneration: The act of loading. [Obs.]
onerous: Burdensome; oppressive. "Too onerous a solicitude." I. Taylor.Onerous cause (Scots Law), a good and legal consideration; -- opposedto gratuitous.
onerously: In an onerous manner.
ones: Once. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oneself: A reflexive form of the indefinite pronoun one. Commonly writenas two words, one's self.One's self (or more properly oneself), is quite a modern form. InElizabethan English we find a man's self=one's self. Morris.
onethe: Scarcely. See Unnethe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ongoing: The act of going forward; progress; (pl.) affairs; business;current events.The common ongoings of this our commonplace world, and everyday life.Prof. Wilson.
onguent: An unguent.
onion: A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A.cepa), having astrong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root,much used as an article of food. The name is often extended to otherspecies of the genus. Onion fish (Zoöl.), the grenadier.-- Onion fly (Zoöl.) a dipterous insect whose larva feeds upon theonion; especially, Anthomyia ceparum and Ortalis flexa.-- Welsh onion. (Bot.) See Cibol.-- Wild onion (Bot.), a name given to several species of the genusAllium.
onionskin: A kind of thin translucent paper with a glossy finish.
onirocritic: See Oneirocritic.
onliness: The state of being alone. [Obs.]
onloft: Aloft; above ground. [Obs.]She kept her father's life onloft. Chaucer.
only: Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically withor without that, and properly introducing a single fact orconsideration.He might have seemed some secretary or clerk . . . only that his low,flat, unadorned cap . . . indicated that he belonged to the city. SirW. Scott.
onocerin: A white crystalline waxy substance extracted from the root ofthe leguminous plant Ononis spinosa.
onology: Foolish discourse. [R.]
onomancy: Divination by the letters of a name; nomancy. [R.] Camden.
onomastic: Applied to a signature when the body of the instrument is inanother's handwriting. Burrill.
onomasticon: A collection of names and terms; a dictionary; specif., acollection of Greek names, with explanatory notes, made by JuliusPollux about A.D.180.
onomatechny: Prognostication by the letters of a name.
onomatologist: One versed in the history of names. Southey.
onomatology: The science of names or of their classification.
onomatope: An imitative word; an onomatopoetic word.
onomatopoeia: The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure ofspeech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of thething which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of agoose; the crackle of fire.
onomatopoeic: Onomatopoetic. Whitney.
onomatopoetic: Of or pertaining to onomatopoeia; characterized byonomatopoeia; imitative; as, an onomatopoetic writer or word. Earle.
onomatopy: Onomatopoeia.
onomomancy: See Onomancy.
onondagas: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part ofthe State of New York. They were the central or head tribe of theFive Nations.
onrush: A rushing onward.
onstead: A single farmhouse; a steading. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Grose.Jamieson.
onto: On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.
ontogenetic: Of or pertaining to ontogenesis; as, ontogenetic phenomena.-- On`to*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
ontogenic: Ontogenetic.
ontologic: Ontological.
ontological: Of or pertaining to ontology.
ontologically: In an ontological manner.
ontologist: One who is versed in or treats of ontology. Edin. Rev.
ontology: That department of the science of metaphysics whichinvestigates and explains the nature and essential properties andrelations of all beings, as such, or the principles and causes ofbeing.
onus: A burden; an obligation. Onus probandi ( Etym
onward: Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as,to move onward.Not one looks backward, onward still he goes. Pope.
onwardness: Progress; advancement.
onwards: Onward.
ony: Any. [Obs.] Chaucer.
onychomancy: Divination by the nails.
onychophora: Malacopoda.
onyx: Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. Itis used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with thenext as a ground. Onyx marble, a banded variety of marble or calciumcarbonate resembling onyx. It is obtained from Mexico.
oo: One. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ooecium: One of the special zooids, or cells, of Bryozoa, destined toreceive and develop ova; an ovicell. See Bryozoa.
ooidal: Shaped like an egg.
ook: Oak. [Obs.] "A branched ook." Chaucer.
oolong: A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor ofgreen tea. [Written also oulong.]
oon: One. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oones: Once. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oop: To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite. [Scot.]Jamieson.
oordoba: The monetary unit of Nicaragua, equivalent to the United Statesgold dollar.
ooze: To cause to ooze. Alex. Smith.
ooze leather: Leather made from sheep and calf skins by mechanically forcingooze through them; esp., such leather with a soft, finely granulatedfinish (called sometimes velvet finish) put on the flesh side forspecial purposes. Ordinary ooze leather is used for shoe uppers, inbookbinding, etc. Hence Ooze calf, Ooze finish, etc.
oozy: Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed ofa river. Pope.
opacate: To darken; to cloud. [Obs.] Boyle.
opacous: Opaque. [R.] Milton.-- O*pa"cous*ness, n. [R.]
opacular: Opaque. [Obs.] Sterne.
opah: A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting theAtlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colors, which arered, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered withround silvery spots. Called also king of the herrings.
opake: See Opaque.
opal: A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior toquartz in hardness and specific gravity.
opalesce: To give forth a play of colors, like the opal.
opalescence: A reflection of a milky or pearly light from the interior of amineral, as in the moonstone; the state or quality of beingopalescent.
opalescent: Reflecting a milky or pearly light from the interior; having anopaline play of colors.
opaline: Of, pertaining to, or like, opal in appearance; havingchangeable colors like those of the opal.
opalize: To convert into opal, or a substance like opal. Lyell.
opalotype: A picture taken on "milky" glass.
opaque: That which is opaque; opacity. Young.
opaqueness: The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity. Dr.H. More.
ope: Open. [Poetic] Spenser.On Sunday heaven's gate stands ope. Herbert.
opeidoscope: An instrument, consisting of a tube having one end open and theother end covered with a thin flexible membrance to the center ofwhich is attached a small mirror. It is used for exhibiting upon ascreen, by means of rays reflected from the mirror, the vibratorymotions caused by sounds produced at the open end of the tube, as byspeaking or singing into it. A. E. Dolbear.
opelet: A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea,sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles.
open: Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees orobstructions; open ocean; open water. "To sail into the open." Jowett(Thucyd. ).Then we got into the open. W. Black.In open, in full view; without concealment; openly. [Obs.] Beau. &Fl.
open sea: A sea open to all nations. See Mare clausum.
open verdict: A verdict on a preliminary investigation, finding the fact of acrime but not stating the criminal, or finding the fact of a violentdeath without disclosing the cause.
open-air: Taking place in the open air; outdoor; as, an open-air game ormeeting.
open-eyed: With eyes widely open; watchful; vigilant. Shak.
open-handed: Generous; liberal; munificent.-- O"pen-hand`ed*ness, n. J. S. Mill.
open-headed: Bareheaded. [Obs.]
open-hearted: Candid; frank; generous. Dryden.-- O"pen-heart`ed*ly, adv.-- O"pen-heart`ed*ness, n. Walton.
open-hearth steel: See under Open.
open-mouthed: Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous.L'Estrange.
openbill: A bird of the genus Anastomus, allied to the stork; -- socalled because the two parts of the bill touch only at the base andtip. One species inhabits India, another Africa. Called also open-beak. See Illust. (m), under Beak.
opener: One who, or that which, opens. "True opener of my eyes."Milton.
openness: The quality or state of being open.
openwork: A quarry; an open cut. Raymond.
operable: Practicable. [Obs.]
operameter: An instrument or machine for measuring work done, especiallyfor ascertaining the number of rotations made by a machine or wheelin manufacturing cloth; a counter. Ure.
operand: The symbol, quantity, or thing upon which a mathematicaloperation is performed; -- called also faciend.
operant: Operative. [R.] Shak.-- n.
operate: To perform some manual act upon a human body in a methodicalmanner, and usually with instruments, with a view to restoresoundness or health, as in amputation, lithotomy, etc.
operation: Something to be done; some transformation to be made uponquantities, the transformation being indicated either by rules orsymbols.
operative: Based upon, or consisting of, an operation or operations; as,operative surgery.
operatively: In an operative manner.
operator: One who performs some act upon the human body by means of thehand, or with instruments.
operatory: A laboratory. [Obs.]
opercle: Any one of the bony plates which support the gill covers offishes; an opercular bone.
opercula: See Operculum.
opercular: Of, pertaining to, or like, an operculum.
operculiferous: Bearing an operculum.
operculiform: Having the form of a lid or cover.
operculigenous: Producing an operculum; -- said of the foot, or part of thefoot, of certain mollusks.
operetta: A short, light, musical drama.
operose: Wrought with labor; requiring labor; hence, tedious; wearisome."Operose proceeding." Burke. "A very operose calculation." DeQuincey.-- Op"er*ose`ly, adv.-- Op"er*ose`ness, n.
operosity: Laboriousness. [R.] Bp. Hall.
operous: Operose. [Obs.] Holder.-- Op"er*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
opertaneous: Concealed; private. [R.]
opetide: Open time; -- applied to different things:(a) The early spring, or the time when flowers begin opening.[Archaic] Nares.(b) The time between Epiphany and Ash Wednesday wherein marriageswere formerly solemnized publicly in churches. [Eng.](c) The time after harvest when the common fields are open to allkinds of stock. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. [Written also opentide.]
ophelic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a substance (called ophelicacid) extracted from a plant (Ophelia) of the Gentian family as abitter yellowish sirup, used in India as a febrifuge and tonic.
ophicleide: A large brass wind instrument, formerly used in the orchestraand in military bands, having a loud tone, deep pitch, and a compassof three octaves; -- now generally supplanted by bass and contrabasstubas. Moore (Encyc. of Music).
ophidia: The order of reptiles which includes the serpents.
ophidian: One of the Ophidia; a snake or serpent.
ophidioid: Of or pertaining to the Ophidiidæ, a family of fishes whichincludes many slender species.-- n.
ophidion: The typical genus of ophidioid fishes. [Written also Ophidium.]See Illust. under Ophidioid.
ophidious: Ophidian.
ophiolatry: The worship of serpents.
ophiologist: One versed in the natural history of serpents.
ophiology: That part of natural history which treats of the ophidians, orserpents.
ophiomancy: Divination by serpents, as by their manner of eating, or bytheir coils.
ophiomorpha: An order of tailless amphibians having a slender, wormlike bodywith regular annulations, and usually with minute scales imbedded inthe skin. The limbs are rudimentary or wanting. It includes thecæcilians. Called also Gymnophiona and Ophidobatrachia.
ophiomorphite: An ammonite.
ophiomorphous: Having the form of a serpent.
ophiophagous: Feeding on serpents; -- said of certain birds and reptiles.
ophiophagus: A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on othersnakes. Ophiophagus elaps is said to be the largest and most deadlyof poisonous snakes.
ophite: Of or pertaining to a serpent. [Obs.]
ophiuchus: A constellation in the Northern Hemisphere, delineated as a manholding a serpent in his hands; -- called also Serpentarius.
ophiura: A genus of ophiurioid starfishes.
ophiuran: Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.-- n.
ophiurid: Same as Ophiurioid.
ophiurida: Same as Ophiurioidea.
ophiurioid: Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.-- n.
ophryon: The supraorbital point.
ophthalmia: An inflammation of the membranes or coats of the eye or of theeyeball.
ophthalmic: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the eye; ocular; as theophthalmic, or orbitonasal, nerve, a division of the trigeminal,which gives branches to the lachrymal gland, eyelids, nose, andforehead. Ophthalmic region (Zoöl.), the space around the eyes.
ophthalmite: An eyestalk; the organ which bears the compound eyes of decapodCrustacea.
ophthalmological: Of or pertaining to ophthalmology.
ophthalmologist: One skilled in ophthalmology; an oculist.
ophthalmology: The science which treats of the structure, functions, anddiseases of the eye.
ophthalmometer: An instrument devised by Helmholtz for measuring the size of areflected image on the convex surface of the cornea and lens of theeye, by which their curvature can be ascertained.
ophthalmoscope: An instrument for viewing the interior of the eye, particularlythe retina. Light is thrown into the eye by a mirror (usuallyconcave) and the interior is then examined with or without the aid ofa lens.-- Oph*thal`mo*scop"ic, a.
ophthalmy: Same as Ophthalmia.
opianic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained bythe oxidation of narcotine.
opianine: An alkaloid found in small quantity in opium. It is identicalwith narcotine.
opianyl: Same as Meconin.
opiate: Inducing sleep; somniferous; narcotic; hence, anodyne; causingrest, dullness, or inaction; as, the opiate rod of Hermes. Milton.
opie: Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer.
opiferous: Bringing help. [R.]
opifice: Workmanship. [Obs.] Bailey.
opificer: An artificer; a workman. [Obs.] "The almighty opificer."Bentley.
opinable: Capable of being opined or thought. Holland.
opination: The act of thinking; a supposition. [Obs.]
opinative: Obstinate in holding opinions; opinionated. [Obs.] --O*pin"a*tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] Burton. Sir T. More.
opinator: One fond of his own opinious; one who holds an opinion. [Obs.]Glanvill.
opine: To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose. South.
opiner: One who opines. Jer. Taylor.
opiniastrous: See Opiniaster. [Obs.].
opiniate: To hold or maintain persistently. [Obs.] Barrow.
opiniated: Opinionated. [Obs.]
opiniative: Opinionative. Glanvill.-- O*pin"ia*tive*ly, adv.-- O*pin"ia*tive*ness, n.
opiniatre: See Opiniaster. [Obs.] Locke.
opiniatrety: Obstinacy in opinious. [Written also opiniatry.] [Obs.]
opinicus: An imaginary animal borne as a charge, having wings, an eagle'shead, and a short tail; -- sometimes represented without wings.
opining: Opinion. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
opinion: The formal decision, or expression of views, of a judge, anumpire, a counselor, or other party officially called upon toconsider and decide upon a matter or point submitted. To be ofopinion, to think; to judge.-- To hold opinion with, to agree with. [Obs.] Shak.
opinionable: Being, or capable of being, a matter of opinion; that can bethought; not positively settled; as, an opinionable doctrine. C. J.Ellicott.
opinionate: Opinionated.
opinionated: Stiff in opinion; firmly or unduly adhering to one's ownopinion or to preconceived notions; obstinate in opinion. Sir W.Scott.
opinionately: Conceitedly. Feltham.
opinionatist: An opinionist. [Obs.]
opinionator: An opinionated person; one given to conjecture. [Obs.] South.
opinioned: Opinionated; conceited.His opinioned zeal which he thought judicious. Milton.
opinionist: One fond of his own notions, or unduly attached to his ownopinions. Glanvill.
opiparous: Sumptuous. [Obs.] -- O*pip"a*rous*ly, adv. [Obs.] E.Waterhouse.
opisometer: An instrument with a revolving wheel for measuring a curvedline, as on a map.
opisthion: The middle of the posterior, or dorsal, margin of the greatforamen of the skull.
opisthobranchiate: Of or pertaining to the Opisthobranchiata.-- n.
opisthodome: A back chamber; especially, that part of the naos, or cella,farthest from the main entrance, sometimes having an entrance of itsown, and often used as a treasury.
opisthoglypha: A division of serpents which have some of the posteriormaxillary teeth grooved for fangs.
opisthography: A writing upon the back of anything, as upon the back of a leafor sheet already written upon on one side. [R.] Scudamore.
opisthomi: An order of eellike fishes having the scapular arch attached tothe vertebræ, but not connected with the skull.
opisthopulmonate: Having the pulmonary sac situated posteriorly; -- said ofcertain air-breathing Mollusca.
opisthotic: The inferior and posterior of the three elements forming theperiotic bone.
opisthotonos: A tetanic spasm in which the body is bent backwards andstiffened.
opitulation: The act of helping or aiding; help. [Obs.] Bailey.
opium: The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or whitepoppy.
ople tree: The witch-hazel. [Obs.] Ainsworth.
opolchenie: See Army organization, above.
opopanax: The inspissated juice of an umbelliferous plant (the OpoponaxChironum), brought from Turkey and the East Indies in loose granules,or sometimes in larger masses, of a reddish yellow color, with specksof white. It has a strong smell and acrid taste, and was formerlyused in medicine as an emmenagogue and antispasmodic. Dunglison.
opossum: Any American marsupial of the genera Didelphys and Chironectes.The common species of the United States is Didelphys Virginiana.
oppidan: Of or pertaining to a town. Howell.
oppignerate: To pledge; to pawn. [Obs.] Bacon.
oppilate: To crowd together; to fill with obstructions; to block up.[Obs.] Cockeram.
oppilation: The act of filling or crowding together; a stopping byredundant matter; obstruction, particularly in the lower intestines.Jer. Taylor.
oppilative: Obstructive. [Obs.] Sherwood.
oppletion: The act of filling up, or the state of being filled up;fullness. [Obs.]
oppone: To oppose. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
opponency: The act of opening an academical disputation; the propositionof objections to a tenet, as an exercise for a degree. [Eng.] Todd.
opponent: Situated in front; opposite; hence, opposing; adverse;antagonistic. Pope.
opportune: Convenient; ready; hence, seasonable; timely. Milton.This is most opportune to our need. Shak.-- Op`por*tune"ly, adv.-- Op`por*tune"ness, n.
opportunism: The art or practice of taking advantage of opportunities orcircumstances, or of seeking immediate advantage with little regardfor ultimate consequences. [Recent]
opportunist: One who advocates or practices opportunism. [Recent]
opposability: The condition or quality of being opposable.In no savage have I ever seen the slightest approach to opposabilityof the great toe, which is the essential distinguishing feature ofapes. A. R. Wallace.
opposal: Opposition. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
opposeless: Not to be effectually opposed; irresistible. [Obs.] "Your greatopposeless wills." Shak.
opposer: One who opposes; an opponent; an antagonist; an adversary.
oppositely: In a situation to face each other; in an opposite manner ordirection; adversely.Winds from all quarters oppositely blow. May.
oppositeness: The quality or state of being opposite.
oppositifolious: Placed at the same node with a leaf, but separated from it bythe whole diameter of the stem; as, an oppositifolious peduncle.
opposition: The situation of a heavenly body with respect to another whenin the part of the heavens directly opposite to it; especially, theposition of a planet or satellite when its longitude differs fromthat of the sun 180º; -- signified by the symbol as, .
oppositionist: One who belongs to the opposition party. Praed.
oppositipetalous: Placed in front of a petal.
oppositisepalous: Placed in front of a sepal.
oppositive: Capable of being put in opposition. Bp. Hall.
oppressor: One who oppresses; one who imposes unjust burdens on others;one who harasses others with unjust laws or unreasonable severity.The orphan pines while the oppressor feeds. Shak.To relieve the oppressed and to punish the oppressor. Swift.
oppressure: Oppression. [Obs.]
opprobrium: Disgrace; infamy; reproach mingled with contempt; abusivelanguage.Being both dramatic author and dramatic performer, he found himselfheir to a twofold opprobrium. De Quincey.
opprobry: Opprobrium. [Obs.] Johnson.
oppugn: To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose;to resist.They said the manner of their impeachment they could not but conceivedid oppugn the rights of Parliament. Clarendon.
oppugnancy: The act of oppugning; opposition; resistance. Shak.
oppugnant: Tending to awaken hostility; hostile; opposing; warring."Oppugnant forces." I. Taylor.-- n.
oppugnation: Opposition. [R.] Bp. Hall.
oppugner: One who opposes or attacks; that which opposes. Selden.
opsimathy: Education late in life. [R.] Hales.
opsiometer: An instrument for measuring the limits of distincts vision indifferent individuals, and thus determiming the proper focal lengthof a lens for correcting imperfect sight. Brande & C.
opsonation: A catering; a buying of provisions. [Obs.] Bailey.
optable: That may be chosen; desirable. [Obs.] Cockeram.
optate: To choose; to wish for; to desire. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
optation: The act of optating; a wish. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
optative: Expressing desire or wish. Fuller. Optative mood (Gram.), thatmood or form of a verb, as in Greek, Sanskrit, etc., in which a wishor desire is expressed.
optatively: In an optative manner; with the expression of desire. [R.]God blesseth man imperatively, and man blesseth God optatively. Bp.Hall.
optically: By optics or sight; with reference to optics. Optically active,Optically inactive (Chem. Physics), terms used of certain metamericsubstances which, while identical with each other in other respects,differ in this, viz., that they do or do not produce right-handed orleft-handed circular polarization of light.-- Optically positive, Optically negative. See under Refraction.
optics: That branch of physical science which treats of the nature andproperties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque andtransparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision.
optigraph: A telescope with a diagonal eyepiece, suspended vertically ingimbals by the object end beneath a fixed diagonal plane mirror. Itis used for delineating landscapes, by means of a pencil at the eyeend which leaves the delineation on paper.
optimate: Of or pertaining to the nobility or aristocracy. [R.] -- n.
optimates: The nobility or aristocracy of ancient Rome, as opposed to thepopulares.
optime: One of those who stand in the second rank of honors,immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge,England. They are divided into senior and junior optimes.
optimism: The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature, being thework of God, is ordered for the best, or that the ordering of thingsin the universe is such as to produce the highest good.
optimist: One who holds the opinion that all events are ordered for thebest.
optimistic: Of or pertaining to optimism; tending, or conforming, to theopinion that all events are ordered for the best.
optimity: The state of being best. [R.] Bailey.
option: A right formerly belonging to an archbishop to select any onedignity or benefice in the gift of a suffragan bishop consecrated orconfirmed by him, for bestowal by himself when next vacant; --annulled by Parliament in 1845.
optional: Involving an option; depending on the exercise of an option;left to one's discretion or choice; not compulsory; as, optionalstudies; it is optional with you to go or stay.-- n.
optionally: In an optional manner.
optogram: An image of external objects fixed on the retina by thephotochemical action of light on the visual purple. See Optography.
optography: The production of an optogram on the retina by thephotochemical action of light on the visual purple; the fixation ofan image in the eye. The object so photographed shows white on apurple or red background. See Visual purple, under Visual.
optometer: An instrument for measuring the distance of distinct vision,mainly for the selection of eveglasses.
optometrist: One who is skilled in or practices optometry.
opulence: Wealth; riches; affluence. Swift
opulency: See Opulence. Shak.
opulent: Having a large estate or property; wealthy; rich; affluent; as,an opulent city; an opulent citizen.-- Op"u*lent*ly, adv.I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms. Shak.
opuntia: A genus of cactaceous plants; the prickly pear, or Indian fig.
opus: A work; specif. (Mus.), a musical composition.
opusculum: An opuscule. Smart.
opye: Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oquassa: A small, handsome trout (Salvelinus oquassa), found in some ofthe lakes in Maine; -- called also blueback trout.
or: A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or maywrite, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, butnot both. It corresponds to either. You may ride either to London orto Windsor. It often connects a series of words or propositions,presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, ordivinity, or he may enter into trade.If man's convenience, health, Or safety interfere, his rights andclaims Are paramount. Cowper.
ora: A money of account among the Anglo-Saxons, valued, in theDomesday Book, at twenty pence sterling.
orabassu: A South American monkey of the genus Callithrix, esp. C.Moloch.
oracle: The sanctuary, or Most Holy place in the temple; also, thetemple itself. 1 Kings vi. 19.Siloa's brook, that flow'd Fast by the oracle of God. Milton.
oraculous: Oracular; of the nature of an oracle. [R.] "Equivocations, ororaculous speeches." Bacon. "The oraculous seer." Pope.-- O*rac"u*lous*ly, adv.-- O*rac"u*lous*ness, n.
oragious: Stormy. [R.]
oraison: See Orison. [Obs.] Shak.
orang: See Orang-outang.
orang-outang: An arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabitsBorneo and Sumatra. Often called simply orang. [Written also orang-outan, orang-utan, ourang-utang, and oran-utan.]
orange: The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree.
orangeade: A drink made of orange juice and water, corresponding tolemonade; orange sherbet.
orangeat: Candied orange peel; also, orangeade.
orangeism: Attachment to the principles of the society of Orangemen; thetenets or practices of the Orangemen.
orangeman: One of a secret society, organized in the north of Ireland in1795, the professed objects of which are the defense of the regningsovereign of Great Britain, the support of the Protestant religion,the maintenance of the laws of the kingdom, etc.; -- so called inhonor of William, Prince of Orange, who became William III. ofEngland.
orangeroot: An American ranunculaceous plant (Hidrastis Canadensis), havinga yellow tuberous root; -- also called yellowroot, golden seal, etc.
orangery: A place for raising oranges; a plantation of orange trees.
orangetawny: Deep orange-yellow; dark yellow. Shak.
orangite: An orange-yellow variety of the mineral thorite, found inNorway.
orarian: Of or pertaining to a coast.
oration: An elaborate discourse, delivered in public, treating animportant subject in a formal and dignified manner; especially, adiscourse having reference to some special occasion, as a funeral, ananniversary, a celebration, or the like; -- distinguished from anargument in court, a popular harangue, a sermon, a lecture, etc.; as,Webster's oration at Bunker Hill.The lord archbishop . . . made a long oration. Bacon.
orator: An officer who is the voice of the university upon all publicoccasions, who writes, reads, and records all letters of a publicnature, presents, with an appropriate address, those persons on whomhonorary degrees are to be conferred, and performs other like duties;-- called also public orator.
oratorial: Oratorical. [R.] Swift. --Or`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.
oratorian: Oratorical. [Obs.] R. North.
oratorical: Of or pertaining to an orator or to oratory; characterized byoratory; rhetorical; becoming to an orator; as, an oratoricaltriumph; an oratorical essay.-- Or`a*tor"ic*al*ly, adv.
oratorio: A more or less dramatic text or poem, founded on some Scripturenerrative, or great divine event, elaborately set to music, inrecitative, arias, grand choruses, etc., to be sung with anorchestral accompaniment, but without action, scenery, or costume,although the oratorio grew out of the Mysteries and the Miracle andPassion plays, which were acted.
oratorious: Oratorical. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.-- Or`a*to"ri*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
oratorize: To play the orator. [Jocose or derisive] Dickens.
oratory: A place of orisons, or prayer; especially, a chapel or smallroom set apart for private devotions.An oratory [temple] . . . in worship of Dian. Chaucer.Do not omit thy prayers for want of a good oratory, or place to prayin. Jer. Taylor.Fathers of the Oratory (R. C. Ch.), a society of priests founded bySt. Philip Neri, living in community, and not bound by a special vow.The members are called also oratorians.
oratress: A woman who makes public addresses. Warner.
oratrix: A woman plaintiff, or complainant, in equity pleading. Burrill.
orb: A blank window or panel. [Obs.] Oxf. Gloss.
orbate: Bereaved; fatherless; childless. [Obs.]
orbation: The state of being orbate, or deprived of parents or children;privation, in general; bereavement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
orbed: Having the form of an orb; round.The orbèd eyelids are let down. Trench.
orbicle: A small orb, or sphere. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
orbicula: Same as Discina.
orbicular: Resembling or having the form of an orb; spherical; circular;orbiculate.-- Or*bic"u*lar*ly, adv.-- Or*bic"u*lar*ness, n.Orbicular as the disk of a planet. De Quincey.
orbiculate: That which is orbiculate; especially, a solid the verticalsection of which is oval, and the horizontal section circular.
orbiculation: The state or quality of being orbiculate; orbicularness. Dr. H.More.
orbit: The path described by a heavenly body in its periodicalrevolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of theearth, of the moon.
orbital: Of or pertaining to an orbit. "Orbital revolution." J. D.Forbes. Orbital index (Anat.), in the skull, the ratio of thevertical height to the transverse width of the orbit, which is takenas the standard, equal to 100.
orbitar: Orbital. [R.] Dunglison.
orbitary: Situated around the orbit; as, the orbitary feathers of a bird.
orbitelae: A division of spiders, including those that make geometricalwebs, as the garden spider, or Epeira.
orbitolites: A genus of living Foraminifera, forming broad, thin, circulardisks, containing numerous small chambers.
orbitonasal: Of or pertaining to the orbit and the nose; as, theorbitonasal, or ophthalmic, nerve.
orbitosphenoid: Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone and the orbit, or to theorbitosphenoid bone.-- n.
orbitosphenoidal: Of or pertaining to the orbitosphenoid bone; orbitosphenoid.
orbituary: Orbital. [R.]
orbulina: A genus of minute living Foraminifera having a globular shell.
orby: Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving. [Obs.] "Orbyhours." Chapman.
orc: The grampus. [Written also ork and orch.] Milton.
orcadian: Of or pertaining to the Orkney Islands.
orcein: A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff,
orchal: See Archil.
orchanet: Same as Alkanet, 2. Ainsworth.
orchardist: One who cultivates an orchard.
orchel: Archil.
orchesography: A treatise upon dancing. [R.]
orchester: See Orchestra.
orchestian: Any species of amphipod crustacean of the genus Orchestia, orfamily Orchestidæ. See Beach flea, under Beach.
orchestra: The instruments employed by a full band, collectively; as, anorchestra of forty stringed instruments, with proper complement ofwind instruments.
orchestral: Of or pertaining to an orchestra; suitable for, or performed inor by, an orchestra.
orchestration: The arrangement of music for an orchestra; orchestral treatmentof a composition; -- called also instrumentation.
orchestre: See Orchestra.
orchestric: Orchestral.
orchestrion: A large music box imitating a variety of orchestralinstruments.
orchid: Any plant of the order Orchidaceæ. See Orchidaceous.
orchidaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order (Orchidaceæ) ofendogenous plants of which the genus Orchis is the type. They aremostly perennial herbs having the stamens and pistils united in asingle column, and normally three petals and three sepals, alladherent to the ovary. The flowers are curiously shaped, oftenresembling insects, the odd or lower petal (called the lip) beingunlike the others, and sometimes of a strange and unexpectedappearance. About one hundred species occur in the United States, butseveral thousand in the tropics.
orchidean: Orchidaceous.
orchideous: Same as Orchidaceous.
orchidologist: One versed in orchidology.
orchidology: The branch of botany which treats of orchids.
orchil: See Archil.
orchilla weed: The lichen from which archil is obtained. See Archil.
orchis: A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperatezone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennialherbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the lastyear's tuber also), and are valued for their showy flowers. SeeOrchidaceous.
orchitis: Inflammation of the testicles.
orchotomy: The operation of cutting out or removing a testicle by theknife; castration.
orcin: A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which isobtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also fromextract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives oftoluene. It changes readily into orcein.
ord: An edge or point; also, a beginning. [ Obs. or Prov. Eng.]Chaucer. Ord and end, the beginning and end. Cf. Odds and ends, underOdds. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Halliwell.
ordain: To invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; tointroduce into the office of the Christian ministry, by the laying onof hands, or other forms; to set apart by the ceremony of ordination.Meletius was ordained by Arian bishops. Bp. Stillingfleet.
ordainable: Capable of being ordained; worthy to be ordained or appointed.Bp. Hall.
ordainer: One who ordains.
ordainment: Ordination. [R.] Burke.
ordal: Ordeal. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ordalian: Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ordeal: Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal.
order: The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of theentablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as thecolumn and entablature are the characteristic features of classicalarchitecture) a style or manner of architectural designing.
orderable: Capable of being ordered; tractable. [R.]Being very orderable in all his sickness. Fuller.
ordering: Disposition; distribution; management. South.
orderless: Being without order or regularity; disorderly; out of rule.
orderliness: The state or quality of being orderly.
orderly: According to due order; regularly; methodically; duly.You are blunt; go to it orderly. Shak.
ordinability: Capability of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] Bp. Bull.
ordinable: Capable of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.]
ordinal: The book of forms for making, ordaining, and consecratingbishops, priests, and deacons.
ordinalism: The state or quality of being ordinal. [R.] Latham.
ordinance: An established rite or ceremony.
ordinand: One about to be ordained.
ordinant: Ordaining; decreeing. [Obs.] Shak.
ordinarily: According to established rules or settled method; as a rule;commonly; usually; in most cases; as, a winter more than ordinarilysevere.Those who ordinarily pride themselves not a little upon theirpenetration. I. Taylor.
ordinary: One who has immediate jurisdiction in matters ecclesiastical;an ecclesiastical judge; also, a deputy of the bishop, or a clergymanappointed to perform divine service for condemned criminals andassist in preparing them for death.(c) (Am. Law) A judicial officer, having generally the powers of ajudge of probate or a surrogate.
ordinaryship: The state of being an ordinary. [R.] Fuller.
ordinate: Well-ordered; orderly; regular; methodical. "A life blissfuland ordinate." Chaucer. Ordinate figure (Math.), a figure whose sidesand angles are equal; a regular figure.
ordinately: In an ordinate manner; orderly. Chaucer. Skelton.
ordination: The act of setting apart to an office in the Christianministry; the conferring of holy orders.
ordinative: Tending to ordain; directing; giving order. [R.] Gauden.
ordinator: One who ordains or establishes; a director. [R.] T. Adams.
ordnance: Heavy weapons of warfare; cannon, or great guns, mortars, andhowitzers; artillery; sometimes, a general term for all weapons andappliances used in war.All the battlements their ordnance fire. Shak.Then you may hear afar off the awful roar of his [Rufus Choate's]rifled ordnance. E. Ererett.Ordnance survey, the official survey of Great Britain and Ireland,conducted by the ordnance department.
ordonnance: The disposition of the parts of any composition with regard toone another and the whole.Their dramatic ordonnance of the parts. Coleridge.
ordonnant: Of or pertaining to ordonnance. Dryden.
ordovian: Ordovician.
ordovician: Of or pertaining to a division of the Silurian formation,corresponding in general to the Lower Silurian of most authors,exclusive of the Cambrian.-- n.
ordurous: Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy. Drayton.
ore: Honor; grace; favor; mercy; clemency; happy augry. [Obs.]Chaucer.
oread: One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes.Like a wood nymph light, Oread or Dryad. Milton.
oreades: A group of butterflies which includes the satyrs. See Satyr, 2.
orectic: Of or pertaining to the desires; hence, impelling togratification; appetitive.
oregon grape: An evergreen species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), ofOregon and California; also, its roundish, blue-black berries.
oreide: See Oroide.
oreodon: A genus of extinct herbivorous mammals, abundant in theTertiary formation of the Rocky Mountains. It is more or less relatedto the camel, hog, and deer.
oreodont: Resembling, or allied to, the genus Oreodon.
oreographic: Of or pertaining to oreography.
oreography: The science of mountains; orography.
oreoselin: A white crystalline substance which is obtained indirectly fromthe root of an umbelliferous plant (Imperatoria Oreoselinum), andyields resorcin on decomposition.
oreosoma: A genus of small oceanic fishes, remarkable for the largeconical tubercles which cover the under surface.
oreweed: Same as Oarweed.
orewood: Same as Oarweed.
orfgild: Restitution for cattle; a penalty for taking away cattle.Cowell.
orfray: The osprey. [Obs.] Holland.
orfrays: See Orphrey. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
orgal: See Argol. [Obs.]
organ: A natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable ofperforming some special action (termed its function), which isessential to the life or well-being of the whole; as, the heart,lungs, etc., are organs of animals; the root, stem, foliage, etc.,are organs of plants.
organic: Of or pertaining to an organ or its functions, or to objectscomposed of organs; consisting of organs, or containing them; as, theorganic structure of animals and plants; exhibiting characterspeculiar to living organisms; as, organic bodies, organic life,organic remains. Cf. Inorganic.
organical: Organic.The organical structure of human bodies, whereby they live and move.Bentley.
organically: In an organic manner; by means of organs or with reference toorganic functions; hence, fundamentally. Gladstone.
organicalness: The quality or state of being organic.
organicism: The doctrine of the localization of disease, or which refers italways to a material lesion of an organ. Dunglison.
organific: Making an organic or organized structure; producing anorganism; acting through, or resulting from, organs. Prof. Park.
organism: An organized being; a living body, either vegetable or animal,compozed of different organs or parts with functions which areseparate, but mutually dependent, and essential to the life of theindividual.
organist: One who plays on the organ.
organista: Any one of several South American wrens, noted for thesweetness of their song.
organity: Organism. [R.]
organizability: Quality of being organizable; capability of being organized.
organizable: Capable of being organized; esp. (Biol.), capable of beingformed into living tissue; as, organizable matter.
organize: To furnish with organs; to give an organic structure to; toendow with capacity for the functions of life; as, an organizedbeing; organized matter; -- in this sense used chiefly in the pastparticiple.These nobler faculties of the mind, matter organized could neverproduce. Ray.
organizer: One who organizes.
organling: A large kind of sea fish; the orgeis.
organo-: A combining form denoting relation to, or connection with, anorgan or organs.
organogen: A name given to any one of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen,oxygen, and nitrogen, which are especially characteristic ingredientsof organic compounds; also, by extension, to other elements sometimesfound in the same connection; as sulphur, phosphorus, etc.
organogenesis: The origin and development of organs in animals and plants.
organogenic: Of or pertaining to organogenesis.
organogeny: Organogenesis.
organographist: One versed in organography.
organography: A description of the organs of animals or plants.
organoleptic: Making an impression upon an organ; plastic; -- said of theeffect or impression produced by any substance on the organs oftouch, taste, or smell, and also on the organism as a whole.
organological: Of or relating to organology.
organometallic: Metalorganic.
organonymy: The designation or nomenclature of organs. B. G. Wilder.
organophyly: The tribal history of organs, -- a branch of morphophyly.Haeckel.
organoplastic: Having the property of producing the tissues or organs ofanimals and plants; as, the organoplastic cells.
organoscopy: Phrenology. Fleming.
organotrophic: Relating to the creation, organization, and nutrition of livingorgans or parts.
organule: One of the essential cells or elements of an organ. See Senseorganule, under Sense. Huxley.
organy: See Origan.
organzine: A kind of double thrown silk of very fine texture, that is,silk twisted like a rope with different strands, so as to increaseits strength.
orgasm: Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state ofturgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venerealexcitement in sexual intercourse.
orgeat: A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, butwhich is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavorbeverages or edibles.
orgeis: See Organling.
orgiastic: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, orgies. Elton.
orgillous: Proud; haughty. [Obs.] Shak.
orgulous: See Orgillous. [Obs.]
orgy: A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies
orgyia: A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those ofOrgyia leucostigma) are often very injurious to fruit trees and shadetrees. The female is wingless. Called also vaporer moth.
oricalche: See Orichalch.Costly oricalche from strange Phoenice. Spenser.
orichalceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, orichalch; having a color orluster like that of brass. Maunder.
orichalch: A metallic substance, resembling gold in color, but inferior invalue; a mixed metal of the ancients, resembling brass; -- calledalso aurichalcum, orichalcum, etc.
oriel: A bay window. See Bay window.The beams that thro' the oriel shine Make prisms in every carvenglass. Tennyson.
oriency: Brightness or strength of color. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
oriental: Of or pertaining to the orient or east; eastern; concerned withthe East or Orientalism; -- opposed to occidental; as, Orientalcountries.The sun's ascendant and oriental radiations. Sir T. Browne.
orientality: The quality or state of being oriental or eastern. Sir T.Browne.
orientalize: to render Oriental; to cause to conform to Oriental manners orconditions.
orientate: To move or turn toward the east; to veer from the north orsouth toward the east.
orientness: The quality or state of being orient or bright; splendor.[Obs.] Fuller.
orifice: A mouth or aperture, as of a tube, pipe, etc.; an opening; as,the orifice of an artery or vein; the orifice of a wound. Shak.Etna was bored through the top with a monstrous orifice. Addison.
origenism: The opinions of Origen of Alexandria, who lived in the 3dcentury, one of the most learned of the Greek Fathers. Prominent inhis teaching was the doctrine that all created beings, includingSatan, will ultimately be saved.
origenist: A follower of Origen of Alexandria.
origin: The point of attachment or end of a muscle which is fixedduring contraction; -- in contradistinction to insertion. Origin ofcoördinate axes (Math.), the point where the axes intersect. See Noteunder Ordinate.
originable: Capable of being originated.
original: The natural or wild species from which a domesticated orcultivated variety has been derived; as, the wolf is thought by someto be the original of the dog, the blackthorn the original of theplum.
originalist: One who is original. [R.]
originality: The quality or state of being original. Macaulay.
originalness: The quality of being original; originality. [R.] Johnson.
originant: Originating; original. [R.]An absolutely originant act of self will. Prof. Shedd.
originate: To give an origin or beginning to; to cause to be; to bringinto existence; to produce as new.A decomposition of the whole civill and political mass, for thepurpose of originating a new civil order. Burke.
originative: Having power, or tending, to originate, or bring intoexistence; originating. H. Bushnell.-- O*rig"i*na*tive*ly, adv.
originator: One who originates.
orillon: A semicircular projection made at the shoulder of a bastion forthe purpose of covering the retired flank, -- found in oldfortresses.
oriol: See Oriel.
orion: A large and bright constellation on the equator, between thestars Aldebaran and Sirius. It contains a remarkable nebula visibleto the naked eye.The flaming glories of Orion's belt. E. Everett.
oriskany: Designating, or pertaining to, certain beds, chiefly limestone,characteristic of the latest period of the Silurian age. Oriskanyperiod, a subdivision of the American Paleozoic system intermediateor translational in character between the Silurian and Devonian ages.See Chart of Geology.
orismological: Of or pertaining to orismology.
orismology: That departament of natural history which treats of technicalterms.
orison: A prayer; a supplication. [Poetic] Chaucer. Shak.Lowly they bowed, adoring, and began Their orisons, each morning dulypaid. Milton.
orisont: Horizon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ork: See Orc.
orkneyan: Of or pertaining to the Orkney islands. "Orkneyan skerries."Longfellow.
orle: A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within,but at some distance from, the border.
orlo: A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards.
orlop: The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consistingof a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cablesare coiled.
ormer: An abalone.
ormolu: A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of lesszinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains.Its golden color is often heightened by means of lacquer of somesort, or by use of acids. Called also mosaic gold. Ormolu varnish, avarnish applied to metals, as brass, to give the appearance of gold.
ormuzd: The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion.See Ahriman.
orn: To ornament; to adorn. [Obs.] Joye.
ornament: That which embellishes or adorns; that which adds grace orbeauty; embellishment; decoration; adornment.The ornament of a meek and quiet spirit. 1 Pet. iii. 4.Like that long-buried body of the king Found lying with his urns andornaments. Tennyson.
ornamental: Serving to ornament; characterized by ornament; beautifying;embellishing.Some think it most ornamental to wear their bracelets on theirwrists; others, about their ankles. Sir T. Browne.
ornamentally: By way of ornament.
ornamenter: One who ornaments; a decorator.
ornate: To adorn; to honor. [R.]They may ornate and sanctify the name of God. Latimer.
ornately: In an ornate manner. Sir T. More.
ornateness: The quality of being ornate.
ornature: Decoration; ornamentation. [R.] Holinshed.
ornithic: Of or pertaining to birds; as, ornithic fossils. Owen.
ornithichnite: The footmark of a bird occurring in strata of stone. Hitchcock.
ornithichnology: The branch of science which treats of ornithichnites.Hitchcock.
ornitho-: A combining form fr. Gr.
ornithodelphia: Same as Monotremata.-- Or`ni*tho*del"phid, a.
ornithoidichnite: A fossil track resembling that of a bird. Hitchcock.
ornitholite: Of or pertaining to ornithology.
ornithologist: One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one whodescribes birds.
ornithomancy: Divination by means of birds, their flight, etc.Ornithomancy grew into an elaborate science. De Quincey.
ornithon: An aviary; a poultry house. Weale.
ornithopappi: An extinct order of birds. It includes only the Archæopteryx.
ornithopoda: An order of herbivorous dinosaurs with birdlike characteristicsin the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind legs, which in somegenera had only three functional toes, and supported the body inwalking as in Iguanodon. See Illust. in Appendix.
ornithorhynchus: See Duck mole, under Duck.
ornithosauria: An order of extinct flying reptiles; -- called alsoPterosauria.
ornithoscelida: A group of extinct Reptilia, intermediate in structure(especially with regard to the pelvis) between reptiles and birds.-- Or`ni*tho*scel"i*dan, a.
ornithoscopy: Observation of birds and their habits. [R.] De Quincey.
ornithotomical: Of or pertaining to ornithotomy.
ornithotomist: One who is skilled in ornithotomy.
ornithotomy: The anatomy or dissection of birds.
orograph: A machine for use in making topographical maps. It is operatedby being pushed across country, and not only records distances, likethe perambulator, but also elevations.
orography: That branch of science which treats of mountains and mountainsystems; orology; as, the orography of Western Europe.
oroheliograph: A camera for obtaining a circular panoramic view of thehorizon. The photographic plate is placed horizontally with avertical lens above. A mirror of peculiar shape reflects light fromthe entire horizon to the lens, by means of which it is focused uponthe plate.
orohippus: A genus of American Eocene mammals allied to the horse, buthaving four toes in front and three behind.
oroide: An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold incolor and brilliancy. [Written also oreide.]
orological: Of or pertaining to orology.
orologist: One versed in orology.
orology: The science or description of mountains.
orometer: An aneroid barometer having a second scale that gives theapproximate elevation above sea level of the place where theobservation is made.
orotund: Characterized by fullness, clearness, strength, and smoothness;ringing and musical; -- said of the voice or manner of utterance.-- n.
orotundity: The orotund mode of intonation.
orphaline: See Orpheline. [Obs.]
orphan: A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, achild who has but one parent living. Orphans' court (Law), a court insome of the States of the Union, having jurisdiction over the estatesand persons of orphans or other wards. Bouvier.
orphancy: Orphanhood. Sir P. Sidney.
orphanet: A little orphan. Drayton.
orphanhood: The state or condition of being an orphan; orphanage.
orphanism: Orphanhood. [R.]
orphanotrophism: The care and support of orphans. [R.] Cotton Mather (1711).
orpharion: An old instrument of the lute or cittern kind. [Spelt alsoorpheoreon.]
orphean: Of or pertaining to Orpheus, the mythic poet and musician; as,Orphean strains. Cowper.
orpheline: An orphan. [Obs.] Udcll.
orpheus: The famous mythic Thracian poet, son of the Muse Calliope, andhusband of Eurydice. He is reputed to have had power to entrancebeasts and inanimate objects by the music of his lyre.
orphic: Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns.
orphrey: A band of rich embroidery, wholly or in part of gold, affixedto vestments, especially those of ecclesiastics. Pugin.
orpiment: Arsenic sesquisulphide, produced artificially as an amorphouslemonyellow powder, and occurring naturally as a yellow crystallinemineral; -- formerly called auripigment. It is used in king's yellow,in white Indian fire, and in certain technical processes, as indigoprinting.Our orpiment and sublimed mercurie. Chaucer.Red orpiment, realgar; the red sulphide of arsenic.-- Yellow orpiment, king's yellow.
orpin: The orpine.
orpine: A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium), havingclusters of purple flowers. It is found on dry, sandy places, and onold walls, in England, and has become naturalized in America. Calledalso stonecrop, and live-forever. [Written also orpin.]
orrach: See Orach.
orrery: An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of ballsmoved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions,orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system.
orris: A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina); a kind of flower-de-luce. Its rootstock has an odor resembling that of violets. Orris pea(Med.), an issue pea made from orris root.-- Orris root, the fragrant rootstock of the orris.
orseille: See Archil.
orsellic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in certainlichens, and called also lecanoric acid. [Formerly written alsoorseillic.]
orsellinic: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by apartial decomposition of orsellic acid as a white crystallinesubstance, and related to protocatechuic acid.
ort: A morsel left at a meal; a fragment; refuse; -- commonly usedin the plural. Milton.Let him have time a beggar's orts to crave. Shak.
ortalidian: Any one of numerous small two-winged flies of the familyOrtalidæ. The larvæ of many of these flies live in fruit; those ofothers produce galls on various plants.
orthid: A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, ofthe family Orthidæ.
orthis: An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoicrocks.
orthite: A variety of allanite occurring in slender prismatic crystals.
ortho-: A combining form (also used adjectively), designating:(a) (Inorganic Chem.) The one of several acids of the same element(as the phosphoric acids), which actually occurs with the greatestnumber of hydroxyl groups; as, orthophosphoric acid. Cf. Normal. (b)(Organic Chem.)
orthocarbonic: Designating a complex ether, C.(OC2H5)4, which is obtained as aliquid of a pleasant ethereal odor by means of chlorpicrin, and isbelieved to be a derivative of the hypothetical normal carbonic acid,C.(OH)4.
orthocenter: That point in which the three perpendiculars let fall from theangles of a triangle upon the opposite sides, or the sides produced,mutually intersect.
orthoceras: An extinct genus of Paleozoic Cephalopoda, having a long,straight, conical shell. The interior is divided into numerouschambers by transverse septa.
orthoceratite: An orthoceras; also, any fossil shell allied to Orthoceras.
orthoclase: Common or potash feldspar crystallizing in the monoclinicsystem and having two cleavages at right angles to each other. SeeFeldspar.
orthoclastic: Breaking in directions at right angles to each other; -- saidof the monoclinic feldspars.
orthodiagonal: The diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which isat right angles with the vertical axis.
orthodome: See the Note under Dome, 4.
orthodoxal: Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox. [R.] Milton.
orthodoxality: Orthodoxness. [R.]
orthodoxally: Orthodoxly. [R.] Milton
orthodoxastical: Orthodox. [Obs.]
orthodoxical: Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox.
orthodoxly: In an orthodox manner; with soundness of faith. Sir W.Hamilton.
orthodoxness: The quality or state of being orthodox; orthodoxy. Waterland.
orthodromic: Of or pertaining to orthodromy.
orthodromics: The art of sailing in a direct course, or on the arc of a greatcircle, which is the shortest distance between any two points on thesurface of the globe; great-circle sailing; orthodromy.
orthodromy: The act or art of sailing on a great circle.
orthoepist: One who is skilled in orthoëpy.
orthoepy: The art of uttering words corectly; a correct pronunciation ofwords; also, mode of pronunciation.
orthogamy: Direct fertilization in plants, as when the pollen fertilizingthe ovules comes from the stamens of the same blossom; -- opposed toheterogamy.
orthognathic: Orthognathous.
orthognathism: The quality or state of being orthognathous. Huxley.
orthognathous: Having the front of the head, or the skull, nearlyperpendicular, not retreating backwards above the jaws; -- opposed toAnt
orthogon: A rectangular figure.
orthogonal: Right-angled; rectangular; as, an orthogonal intersection ofone curve with another. Orthogonal projection. See underOrthographic.
orthogonally: Perpendicularly; at right angles; as, a curve cuts a set ofcurves orthogonally.
orthograph: An orthographic projection, sometimes partly in section, esp.of a building.
orthographer: One versed in orthography; one who spells words correctly.
orthographically: In an orthographical manner:(a) according to the rules of proper spelling;(b) according to orthographic projection.
orthographist: One who spells words correctly; an orthographer.
orthographize: To spell correctly or according to usage; to correct in regardto spelling.In the coalesced into ith, which modern reaction has orthographizedto i' th'. Earle.
orthology: The right description of things. [R.] Fotherby.
orthometric: Having the axes at right angles to one another; -- said ofcrystals or crystalline forms.
orthometry: The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the lawsof correct versification.
orthomorphic: Having the right form. Orthomorphic projection, a projection inwhich the angles in the figure to be projected are equal to thecorresponding angles in the projected figure.
orthopedist: One who prevents, cures, or remedies deformities, esp. inchildren.
orthopedy: The art or practice of curing the deformities of children, or,by extension, any deformities of the human body.
orthophony: The art of correct articulation; voice training.
orthopinacoid: A name given to the two planes in the monoclinic system whichare parallel to the vertical and orthodiagonal axes.
orthopoda: An extinct order of reptiles which stood erect on the hindlegs, and resembled birds in the structure of the feet, pelvis, andother parts.
orthopraxy: The treatment of deformities in the human body by mechanicalappliances.
orthoptera: An order of mandibulate insects including grasshoppers,locusts, cockroaches, etc. See Illust. under Insect.
orthopteran: One of the Orthoptera.
orthopterous: Of or pertaining to the Orthoptera.
orthorhombic: Noting the system of crystallization which has three unequalaxes at right angles to each other; trimetric. See Crystallization.
orthoscope: An instrument designed to show the condition of the superficialportions of the eye.
orthoscopic: Giving an image in correct or normal proportions; giving a flatfield of view; as, an orthoscopic eyepiece.
orthosilicic: Designating the form of silicic acid having the normal orhighest number of hydroxyl groups.
orthospermous: Having the seeds straight, as in the fruits of someumbelliferous plants; -- opposed to coelospermous. Darwin.
orthostade: A chiton, or loose, ungirded tunic, falling in straight folds.
orthostichy: A longitudinal rank, or row, of leaves along a stem.
orthotomic: Cutting at right angles. Orthotomic circle (Geom.), that circlewhich cuts three given circles at right angles.
orthotomous: Having two cleavages at right angles with one another.
orthotomy: The property of cutting at right angles.
orthotone: Retaining the accent; not enclitic; -- said of certainindefinite pronouns and adverbs when used interrogatively, which,when not so used, are ordinarilly enclitic.
orthotropic: Having the longer axis vertical; -- said of erect stems. Encyc.Brit.
orthoxylene: That variety of xylene in which the two methyl groups are inthe ortho position; a colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbonresembling benzene.
ortive: Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, theortive amplitude of a planet.
ortygan: One of several species of East Indian birds of the generaOrtygis and Hemipodius. They resemble quails, but lack the hind toe.See Turnix.
orval: A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum).
orvet: The blindworm.
orvietan: A kind of antidote for poisons; a counter poison formerly invogue. [Obs.]
oryctere: The aard-vark.
orycterope: Same as Oryctere.
oryctognosy: Mineralogy. [Obs.] -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic, a.-- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic*al, a. [Obs.] -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.[Obs.]
oryctography: Description of fossils. [Obs.]
oryctological: Of or pertaining to oryctology. [Obs.]
oryctologist: One versed in oryctology. [Obs.]
oryx: A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, theleucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa), and the beatrix antelope (O.beatrix) of Arabia.
oryza: A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice.
os: A bone.
osage orange: An ornamental tree of the genus Maclura (M. aurantiaca),closely allied to the mulberry (Morus); also, its fruit. The tree wasfirst found in the country of the Osage Indians, and bears a hard andinedible fruit of an orangelike appearance. See Bois d'arc.
osages: A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the IndianTerritory.
osanne: Hosanna. [Obs.] Chaucer.
osar: See 3d Os.
oscan: Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, aprovince of ancient Italy.-- n.
oscillancy: The state of oscillating; a seesaw kind of motion. [R.]
oscillaria: A genus of dark green, or purplish black, filamentous, fresh-water algæ, the threads of which have an automatic swaying orcrawling motion. Called also Oscillatoria.
oscillating: That oscillates; vibrating; swinging. Oscillating engine, asteam engine whose cylinder oscillates on trunnions instead of beingpermanently fixed in a perpendicular or other direction. Weale.
oscillating current: A current alternating in direction.
oscillative: Tending to oscillate; vibratory. [R.] I. Taylor.
oscillator: Any device for producing electric oscillations; esp., anapparatus for generating electric waves in a system of wirelesstelegraphy.(b) (Mech.) An instrument for measuring rigidity by the torsionaloscillations of a weighted wire.
oscillatoria: Same as Oscillaria.
oscillatory: Moving, or characterized by motion, backward and forward like apendulum; swinging; oscillating; vibratory; as, oscillatory motion.
oscillogram: An autographic record made by an oscillograph.
oscillograph: An apparatus for recording or indicating alternating-currentwave forms or other electrical oscillations, usually consisting of agalvanometer with strong field, in which the mass of the moving partis very small and frequency of vibration very high. --Os`cil*lo*graph"ic (#), a.
oscillometer: An instrument for measuring the angle through which a shiprolls or pitches at sea.
oscilloscope: An instrument for showing visually the changes in a varyingcurrent; an oscillograph.
oscine: Relating to the Oscines.
oscines: Singing birds; a group of the Passeres, having numeroussyringeal muscles, conferring musical ability.
oscinian: One of the Oscines, or singing birds.
oscinine: Of or pertaining to the Oscines.
oscitantly: In an oscitant manner.
oscitate: To gape; to yawn.
oscitation: The act of yawning or gaping. Addison.
osculant: Adhering closely; embracing; -- applied to certain creepinganimals, as caterpillars.
osculate: To touch closely, so as to have a common curvature at the pointof contact. See Osculation, 2.
osculation: The contact of one curve with another, when the number ofconsecutive points of the latter through which the former passessuffices for the complete determination of the former curve. Brande &C.
osculatory: Pertaining to, or having the properties of, an osculatrix;capable of osculation; as, a circle may be osculatory with a curve,at a given point. Osculatory circle. (Geom.) See Osculating circle ofa curve, under Circle.-- Osculatory plane (to a curve of double curvature), a plane whichpasses through three successive points of the curve.-- Osculatory sphere (to a line of double curvature), a spherepassing through four consecutive points of the curve.
osculatrix: A curve whose contact with a given curve, at a given point, isof a higher order (or involves the equality of a greater number ofsuccessive differential coefficients of the ordinates of the curvestaken at that point) than that of any other curve of the same kind.
oscule: One of the excurrent apertures of sponges.
osculum: Same as Oscule.
osier: Made of osiers; composed of, or containing, osiers. "This osiercage of ours." Shak.
osiered: Covered or adorned with osiers; as, osiered banks. [Poetic]Collins.
osiery: An osier bed.
osiris: One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother andhusband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap ofUpper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf.Serapis.-- O*sir"i*an, a.
osmanli: A Turkish official; one of the dominant tribe of Turks;loosely, any Turk.
osmate: A salt of osmic acid. [Formerly written also osmiate.]
osmaterium: One of a pair of scent organs which the larvæ of certainbutterflies emit from the first body segment, either above or below.
osmazome: A substance formerly supposed to give to soup and broth theircharacteristic odor, and probably consisting of one or several of theclass of nitrogenous substances which are called extractives.
osmiamate: A salt of osmiamic acid.
osmiamic: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid ofosmium, H2N2Os2O5, forming a well-known series of yellow salts.
osmic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium;specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valencehigher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide. Osmic acid.(Chem.) (a) Osmic tetroxide. [Obs.] (b) Osmic acid proper, an acidanalogous to sulphuric acid, not known in the free state, but forminga well-known and stable series of salts (osmates), which wereformerly improperly called osmites.-- Osmic tetroxide (Chem.), a white volatile crystalline substance,OsO4, the most stable and characteristic of the compounds of osmium.It has a burning taste, and gives off a vapor, which is a powerfulirritant poison, violently attacking the eyes, and emitting a strongchlorinelike odor. Formerly improperly called osmic acid.
osmidrosis: The secretion of fetid sweat.
osmious: Denoting those compounds of osmium in which the element has avalence relatively lower than in the osmic compounds; as, osmiouschloride. [Written also osmous.] Osmious acid (Chem.), an acidderived from osmium, analogous to sulphurous acid, and formingunstable salts. It is a brown amorphous substance.
osmite: A salt of osmious acid.
osmium: A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native asan alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine. It is a hard, infusible,bluish or grayish white metal, and the heaviest substance known. Itstetroxide is used in histological experiments to stain tissues.Symbol Os. Atomic weight 191.1. Specific gravity 22.477.
osmogene: An apparatus, consisting of a number of cells whose sides areof parchment paper, for conducting the process of osmosis. It is usedesp. in sugar refining to remove potassium salts from the molasses.
osmograph: An instrument for recording the height of the liquid in anendosmometer or for registering osmotic pressures.
osmometer: An instrument for measuring the amount of osmotic action indifferent liquids.
osmometry: The study of osmose by means of the osmometer.
osmosis: Osmose.
osmotic: Pertaining to, or having the property of, osmose; as, osmoticforce.
osmund: A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The mostremarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmundaregalis), which grows in wet or boggy places, and has large bipinnatefronds, often with a panicle of capsules at the top. The rootstockcontains much starch, and has been used in stiffening linen.
osnaburg: A species of coarse linen, originally made in Osnaburg,Germany.
oso-berry: The small, blueblack, drupelike fruit of the Nuttalliacerasiformis, a shrub of Oregon and California, belonging to theCherry tribe of Rosaceæ.
osphradium: The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with theorgan of respiration.
oss: To prophesy; to presage. [R. & Obs.] R. Edgeworth.
osse: A prophetic or ominous utterance. [R. & Obs.] Holland.
ossean: A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost.
ossein: The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal ofthe mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue,the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone;-- called also ostein. Chemically it is the same as collagen.
osselet: The internal bone, or shell, of a cuttlefish.
osseous: Composed of bone; resembling bone; capable of forming bone;bony; ossific.
osseter: A species of sturgeon.
ossianic: Of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, Ossian, a legendaryErse or Celtic bard.The compositions might be fairly classed as Ossianic. G. Eliot.
ossicle: One of numerous small calcareous structures forming theskeleton of certain echinoderms, as the starfishes.
ossiculated: Having small bones.
ossiculum: Same as Ossicle.
ossiferous: Containing or yielding bone.
ossific: Capable of producing bone; having the power to change cartilageor other tissue into bone.
ossification: The formation of bone; the process, in the growth of an animal,by which inorganic material (mainly lime salts) is deposited incartilage or membrane, forming bony tissue; ostosis.
ossified: Changed to bone or something resembling bone; hardened bydeposits of mineral matter of any kind; -- said of tissues.
ossifragous: Serving to break bones; bone-breaking.
ossify: To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance intobone, as by the deposition of lime salts.
ossifying: Changing into bone; becoming bone; as, the ossifying process.
ossivorous: Feeding on bones; eating bones; as, ossivorous quadrupeds.Derham.
osspringer: The osprey. [R.]
ossuarium: A charnel house; an ossuary. Walpole.
ossuary: A place where the bones of the dead are deposited; a charnelhouse. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ost: See Oast.
osteal: Osseous.
ostein: Ossein.
osteitis: Inflammation of bone.
osteler: Same as Hosteler. Wyclif.
ostend: To exhibit; to manifest. [Obs.]Mercy to mean offenders we'll ostend. J. Webster.
ostensibility: The quality or state of being ostensible.
ostensibly: In an ostensible manner; avowedly; professedly; apparently.Walsh.Ostensibly, we were intended to prevent filibustering into Texas, butreally as a menace to Mexico. U. S. Grant.
ostension: The showing of the sacrament on the altar in order that it mayreceive the adoration of the communicants.
ostensive: Showing; exhibiting. Ostensive demonstration (Math.), a director positive demonstration, as opposed to the apagogical or indirectmethod.
ostensively: In an ostensive manner.
ostentate: To make an ambitious display of; to show or exhibit boastingly.[R.] Jer. Taylor.
ostentatious: Fond of, or evincing, ostentation; unduly conspicuous;pretentious; boastful.Far from being ostentatious of the good you do. Dryden.The ostentatious professions of many years. Macaulay.-- Os`ten*ta"tious*ly, adv.-- Os`ten*ta"tious*ness, n.
ostentator: One fond of display; a boaster. Sherwood.
ostentive: Ostentatious. [Obs.]
ostentous: Ostentatious. [Obs.] Feltham.
osteo-: A combining form of Gr. a bone.
osteoblast: One of the protoplasmic cells which occur in the osteogeneticlayer of the periosteum, and from or around which the matrix of thebone is developed; an osteoplast.
osteoclasis: The operation of breaking a bone in order to correct deformity.
osteoclast: A myeloplax.
osteocomma: A metamere of the vertebrate skeleton; an osteomere; avertebra. Owen.
osteocope: Pain in the bones; a violent fixed pain in any part of a bone.-- Os`te*o*cop"ic, a.
osteocranium: The bony cranium, as distinguished from the cartilaginouscranium.
osteodentine: A hard substance, somewhat like bone, which is sometimesdeposited within the pulp cavity of teeth.
osteogen: The soft tissue, or substance, which, in developing bone,ultimately undergoes ossification.
osteogenetic: Connected with osteogenesis, or the formation of bone;producing bone; as, osteogenetic tissue; the osteogenetic layer ofthe periosteum.
osteogenic: Osteogenetic.
osteographer: An osteologist.
osteography: The description of bones; osteology.
osteoid: Resembling bone; bonelike.
osteolite: A massive impure apatite, or calcium phosphate.
osteologer: One versed in osteology; an osteologist.
osteologist: One who is skilled in osteology; an osteologer.
osteology: The science which treats of the bones of the vertebrateskeleton.
osteolysis: Softening and absorption of bone. -- Os`te*o*lyt"ic (#), a.
osteoma: A tumor composed mainly of bone; a tumor of a bone.
osteomalacia: A disease of the bones, in which they lose their earthymaterial, and become soft, flexible, and distorted. Also calledmalacia.
osteomanty: Divination by means of bones. [R.]
osteomere: An osteocomma. Owen.
osteopath: A practitioner of osteopathy.
osteopathic: Of or pertaining to osteopathy. --Os`te*o*path"ic*al*ly (#),adv.
osteopathist: One who practices osteopathy; an osteopath.
osteoperiostitis: Inflammation of a bone and its periosteum.
osteophone: An instrument for transmission of auditory vibrations throughthe bones of the head, so as to be appreciated as sounds by personsdeaf from causes other than those affecting the nervous apparatus ofhearing.
osteoplast: An osteoblast.
osteoplastic: Producing bone; as, osteoplastic cells.
osteoplasty: An operation or process by which the total or partial loss of abone is remedied. Dunglison.
osteoporosis: An absorption of bone so that the tissue becomes unusuallyporous.
osteopterygious: Having bones in the fins, as certain fishes.
osteosarcoma: A tumor having the structure of a sacroma in which there is adeposit of bone; sarcoma connected with bone.
osteosclerosis: Abnormal hardness and density of bone.
osteotome: Strong nippers or a chisel for dividing bone.
osteotomist: One skilled in osteotomy.
osteotomy: The operation of dividing a bone or of cutting a piece out ofit, -- done to remedy deformity, etc.
osteozoa: Same as Vertebrata.
ostic: Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras,Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians.Schoolcraft.
ostitis: See Osteitis.
ostium: An opening; a passage.
ostler: See Hostler.
ostleress: A female ostler. [R.] Tennyson.
ostlery: See Hostelry. [Obs.]
ostmen: East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called.Lyttelton.
ostosis: Bone formation; ossification. See Ectostosis, and Endostosis.
ostracea: A division of bivalve mollusks including the oysters and alliedshells.
ostracean: Any one of a family of bivalves, of which the oyster is thetype.
ostracion: A genus of plectognath fishes having the body covered withsolid, immovable, bony plates. It includes the trunkfishes.
ostraciont: A fish of the genus Ostracion and allied genera.
ostracism: Banishment by popular vote, -- a means adopted at Athens to ridthe city of a person whose talent and influence gave umbrage.
ostracite: A fossil oyster.
ostracize: To exile by ostracism; to banish by a popular vote, as atAthens. Grote.
ostracoda: Ostracoidea.
ostracodermi: A suborder of fishes of which Ostracion is the type.
ostracoid: Of or pertaining to the Ostracoidea.-- n.
ostracoidea: An order of Entomostraca possessing hard bivalve shells. Theyare of small size, and swim freely about. [Written also Ostracoda.]
ostrea: A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters.
ostreaceous: Of or pertaining to an oyster, or to a shell; shelly.The crustaceous or ostreaceous body. Cudworth.
ostreaculture: The artificial cultivation of oysters.
ostreophagist: One who feeds on oysters.
ostrich: A large bird of the genus Struthio, of which Struthio camelusof Africa is the best known species. It has long and very stronglegs, adapted for rapid running; only two toes; a long neck, nearlybare of feathers; and short wings incapable of flight. The adult maleis about eight feet high.
ostriferous: Producing oysters; containing oysters.
ostrogoth: One of the Eastern Goths. See Goth.
ostrogothic: Of or pertaining to the Ostrogoths.
oswego tea: An American aromatic herb (Monarda didyma), with showy, brightred, labiate flowers.
otacoustic: Assisting the sense of hearing; as, an otacoustic instrument.
otalgia: Pain in the ear; earache.
otalgic: Of or pertaining to otalgia.-- n.
otalgy: Pain in the ear; otalgia.
otary: Any eared seal.
otheoscope: An instrument for exhibiting the repulsive action produced bylight or heat in an exhausted vessel; a modification of theradoimeter. W. Crookes.
other: Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either. . . or are now used). [Obs.]Other of chalk, other of glass. Chaucer.
othergates: In another manner. [Obs.]He would have tickled you othergates. Shak.
otherness: The quality or state of being other or different; alterity;oppositeness.
otherways: See Otherwise. Tyndale.
otherwhere: In or to some other place, or places; elsewhere. Milton.Tennyson.
othman: See Ottoman.
otic: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular;auditory.
otiose: Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle. "Otioseassent." Paley.The true keeping of the Sabbath was not that otiose and unAlford.
otiosity: Leisure; indolence; idleness; ease. [R.] Thackeray.
otis: A genus of birds including the bustards.
otitis: Inflammation of the ear.
oto-: A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near or in,the ear.
otoba fat: A colorless buttery substance obtained from the fruit ofMyristica otoba, a species of nutmeg tree.
otocrane: The cavity in the skull in which the parts of the internal earare lodged.
otocranial: Of or pertaining to the otocrane.
otocyst: An auditory cyst or vesicle; one of the simple auditory organsof many invertebrates, containing a fluid and otoliths; also, theembryonic vesicle from which the parts of the internal ear ofvertebrates are developed.
otography: A description of the ear.
otological: Of or pertaining tootology.
otologist: One skilled in otology; an aurist.
otology: The branch of science which treats of the ear and its diseases.
otopathy: A diseased condition of the ear.
otoscope: An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
otoscopeic: Of or pertaining to the otoscope or to otoscopy.
otoscopy: The examination of the ear; the art of using the otoscope.
otosteal: An auditory ossicle. R. Owen.
otozoum: An extinct genus of huge vertebrates, probably dinosaurs, knownonly from four-toed tracks in Triassic sandstones.
ottar: See Attar.
ottava rima: A stanza of eight lines of heroic verse, with three rhymes, thefirst six lines rhyming alternately and the last two forming acouplet. It was used by Byron in "Don Juan," by Keats in "Isabella,"by Shelley in "The Witch of Atlas," etc.
ottawas: A tribe of Indians who, when first known, lived on the OttawaRiver. Most of them subsequently migrated to the southwestern shoreof Lake Superior.
otter: Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera.Several species are described. They have large, flattish heads, shortears, and webbed toes. They are aquatic, and feed on fish. Their furis soft and valuable. The common otter of Europe is Lutra vulgaris;the American otter is L. Canadensis; other species inhabit SouthAmerica and Asia.
otto: See Attar.
otto cycle: A four-stroke cycle for internal-combustion engines consistingof the following operations
otto engine: An engine using the Otto cycle.
ottoman: Of or pertaining to the Turks; as, the Ottoman power or empire.
ottomite: An Ottoman. [R.] Shak.
ottrelite: A micaceous mineral occurring in small scales. It ischaracteristic of certain crystalline schists.
ouakari: Any South American monkey of the genus Brachyurus, especiallyB. ouakari.
ouananiche: A small landlocked variety of the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salarounaniche) of Lake St. John, Canada, and neighboring waters, notedfor its vigor and activity, and habit of leaping from the water whenhooked.
ouanderoo: The wanderoo.
ouarine: A Brazilian monkey of the genus Mycetes.
oubliette: A dungeon with an opening only at the top, found in some oldcastles and other strongholds, into which persons condemned toperpetual imprisonment, or to perish secretly, were thrust, or luredto fall.Sudden in the sun An oubliette winks. Where is he Gone. Mrs.Browning.
ouch: A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel orornament worn on the person.A precious stone in a rich ouche. Sir T. Elyot.Your brooches, pearls, and ouches. Shak.
oughne: Own. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ought: See Aught.
oughtness: The state of being as a thing ought to be; rightness. [R.] N.W. Taylor.
oughwhere: Anywhere; somewhere. See Owher. [Obs.]
ouistiti: See Wistit.
oul: An awl. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oulachan: Same as Eulachon.
ounce: The twelfth part of a troy pound.
ounding: Waving. [Obs.]Ounding, paling, winding, or bending . . . of cloth. Chaucer.
ouphe: A fairy; a goblin; an elf. [Obs.] "Like urchins, ouphes, andfairies." Shak.
ouphen: Elfish. [Obs.]
our: Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; ourrights; our troops; our endeavors. See I.The Lord is our defense. Ps. lxxxix. 18.
ourang: The orang-outang.
ourang-outang: See Orang-outang.
ouranographist: See Uranographist.
ouranography: See Uranography.
ourebi: A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to theklipspringer.
ouretic: Uric.
ourology: See Urology.
ouroscopy: Ourology.
ours: See Note under Our.
ourselves: ; sing. Ourself (we; also, alone in the predicate, in thenominative or the objective case.We ourselves might distinctly number in words a great deal furtherthen we usually do. Locke.Safe in ourselves, while on ourselves we stand. Dryden.
ouse: See Ooze. [Obs.]
ousel: One of several species of European thrushes, especially theblackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula), and the mountain or ringousel (Turdus torquatus). [Written also ouzel.] Rock ousel (Zoöl.),the ring ousel.-- Water ousel (Zoöl.), the European dipper (Cinclus aquaticus), andthe American dipper (C. Mexicanus).
oust: See Oast.
ouster: A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection;disseizin.Ouster of the freehold is effected by abatement, intrusion,disseizin, discontinuance, or deforcement. Blackstone.Ouster le main. Etym
out: In its original and strict sense, out means from the interiorof something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in aposition or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to inor into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Outof, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or,he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out; or, hecame out from the ship, meeting, sect, party, etc. Out is used in avariety of applications, as
out-herod: To surpass (Herod) in violence or wickedness; to exceed in anyvicious or offensive particular. "It out-Herods Herod." Shak.Out-Heroding the preposterous fashions of the times. Sir W. Scott.
out-of-door: Being out of the house; being, or done, in the open air;outdoor; as, out-of-door exercise. See Out of door, under Out, adv.Amongst out-of-door delights. G. Eliot.
out-of-the-way: See under Out, adv.
out-patient: A patient who is outside a hospital, but receives medical aidfrom it.
outact: To do or beyond; to exceed in acting. [R.]He has made me heir to treasures Would make me outact a real window'swhining. Otway.
outagamies: See lst Fox, 7.
outargue: To surpass or conquer in argument.
outbabble: To utter foolishly or excessively; to surpass in babbling. [R.]Milton.
outbalance: To outweight; to exceed in weight or effect.Let dull Ajax bear away my right When all his days outbalance thisone night. Dryden.
outbar: To bar out. [R.] Spenser.
outbeg: To surpass in begging. [R.]
outbid: To exceed or surpass in bidding.Prevent the greedy, and outbid the bold. Pope.
outbidder: One who outbids. Johnson.
outbleat: To surpass in bleating.
outblown: Inflated with wind. Dryden.
outblush: To exceed in blushing; to surpass in rosy color. T. Shipman.
outboard: Beyond or outside of the lines of a vessel's bulwarks or hull;in a direction from the hull or from the keel; -- opposed to inboard;as, outboard rigging; swing the davits outboard.
outborn: Foreign; not native. [R.]
outbound: Outward bound. Dryden.
outbounds: The farthest or exterior bounds; extreme limits; boundaries.Spenser.
outbow: To excel in bowing. Young.
outbowed: Convex; curved outward. "The convex or outbowed side of avessel." Bp. Hall.
outbrag: To surpass in bragging; hence, to make appear inferior.Whose bare outbragg'd the web it seemed to wear. Shak.
outbrazen: To bear down with a brazen face; to surpass in impudence. T.Brown.
outbreak: A bursting forth; eruption; insurrection. "Mobs and outbreaks."J. H. Newman.The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind. Shak.
outbreast: To surpass in singing. See Breast, n., 6. [Obs.]
outbreathe: To issue, as breath; to be breathed out; to exhale. Beau. & Fl.
outbribe: To surpass in bribing.
outbring: To bring or bear out.
outbud: To sprout. [Poetic] Spenser.
outbuild: To exceed in building, or in durability of building.
outbuilding: A building separate from, and subordinate to, the main house;an outhouse.
outburst: A bursting forth.
outcant: To surpass in canting. Pope.
outcast: Cast out; degraded. "Outcast, rejected." Longfellow.
outcasting: That which is cast out. [Obs.]
outcept: Except. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
outcheat: To exceed in cheating.
outclimb: To climb bevond; to surpass in climbing. Davenant.
outcome: That which comes out of, or follows from, something else;issue; result; consequence; upshot. "The logical outcome." H.Spenser.All true literature, all genuine poetry, is the direct outcome, thecondensed essence, of actual life and thougth. J. C. Shairp.
outcompass: To exceed the compass or limits of. Bacon.
outcourt: An outer or exterior court.The skirts and outcourts of heaven. South.
outcrafty: To exceed in cunning. [R.] Shak.
outcrier: One who cries out or proclaims; a herald or crier.
outcrop: To come out to the surface of the ground; -- said of strata.
outdare: To surpass in daring; to overcome by courage; to brave. Shak.R. Browning.
outdated: Being out of date; antiquated. [Obs.] Hammond.
outdazzle: To surpass in dazzing.
outdo: To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass.An imposture outdoes the original. L' Estrange.I grieve to be outdone by Gay. Swift.
outdoor: Being, or done, in the open air; being or done outside ofcertain buildings, as poorhouses, hospitals, etc.; as, outdoorexercise; outdoor relief; outdoor patients.
outdoors: Abread; out of the house; out of doors.
outdraw: To draw out; to extract. [R.] "He must the teeth outdraw."Gower.
outdream: To pass, or escape, while dreaming. "To oultdream dangers."Beau. & Fl.
outdrink: To exceed in drinking.
outdure: To outlast. [Obs.]
outdwell: To dwell or stay beyond. [Poetic] "He outdwells his hour."Shak.
outdweller: One who holds land in a parish, but lives elsewhere. [Eng.]
outer: Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from theinterior, from a given station, or from any space or positionregarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, theouter wall; the outer court or gate; the outer stump in cricket; theouter world. Outer bar, in England, the body of junior (or utter)barristers; -- so called because in court they occupy a place beyondthe space reserved for Queen's counsel.
outermost: Being on the extreme external part; farthest outward; as, theoutermost row. Boyle.
outface: To face or look (one) out of countenance; to resist or beardown by bold looks or effrontery; to brave. Shak.Having outfaced all the world. South.
outfawn: To exceed in fawning.
outfeast: To exceed in feasting.
outfeat: To surpass in feats.
outfield: The part of the field beyond the diamond, or infield. It isoccupied by the fielders.
outfit: A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of aperson for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in aforeign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, orallowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the UnitedStates to a diplomatic agent going abroad.
outfitter: One who furnishes outfits for a voyage, a journey, or abusiness.
outflank: To go beyond, or be superior to, on the flank; to pass aroundor turn the flank or flanks of.
outflatter: To exceed in flattering.
outfling: A gibe; a contemptuous remark.
outflow: A flowing out; efflux.
outfly: To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than. Shak.Winged with fear outflies the wind. Waller.
outfool: To exceed in folly. [R.] Young.
outfoot: To outrun or outwalk; hence, of a vessel, to outsail. [Colloq.]
outform: External appearance. [Obs.]
outfrown: To frown down; to overbear by frowning. Shak.
outgate: An outlet. [Obs.] Spenser.
outgaze: To gaze beyond; to exceed in sharpness or persistence of seeingor of looking; hence, to stare out of countenance.
outgeneral: To exceed in generalship; to gain advantage over by superiormilitary skill or executive ability; to outmaneuver. Chesterfield.
outgive: To surpass in giving. Dryden.
outgo: That which goes out, or is paid out; outlay; expenditure; --the opposite of Ant
outgoer: One who goes out or departs.
outgoing: Going out; departing; as, the outgoing administration; anoutgoing steamer.
outground: Ground situated at a distance from the house; outlying land.
outgrowth: That which grows out of, or proceeds from, anything; anexcrescence; an offshoot; hence, a result or consequence.
outguard: A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the mainbody of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence,anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to bedefended.
outgush: A pouring out; an outburst.A passionate outgush of emotion. Thackeray.
outhaul: A rope used for hauling out a sail upon a spar; -- opposite ofinhaul.
outher: Other. [Obs.] Chaucer.
outhess: Outcry; alarm. [Obs.] Chaucer.
outhire: To hire out. [Obs.] Spenser.
outhouse: A small house or building at a little distance from the mainhouse; an outbuilding.
outjest: To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting. [R.]Shak.
outjet: That which jets out or projects from anything. [R.] H. Miller.
outjuggle: To surpass in juggling.
outkeeper: An attachment to a surveyor's compass for keeping tally inchaining.
outknave: To surpass in knavery.
outlabor: To surpass in laboring.
outland: Foreign; outlandish. [Obs.] Strutt.
outlander: A foreigner. Wood.
outlast: To exceed in duration; to survive; to endure longer than.Milton.
outlaw: A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived ofits protection. Blackstone.
outlay: To lay out; to spread out; to display. [R.] Drayton.
outleap: To surpass in leaping.
outlet: The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passageout; an exit; a vent.Receiving all, and having no outlet. Fuller.
outlie: To exceed in lying. Bp. Hall.
outlier: A part of a rock or stratum lying without, or beyond, the mainbody, from which it has been separated by denudation.
outlimb: , An extreme member or part of a thing; a limb. [Obs.] Fuller.
outlinear: Of or pertaining to an outline; being in, or forming, anoutline. Trench.
outlive: To live beyond, or longer than; to survive.They live too long who happiness outlive. Dryden.
outliver: One who outlives. [R.]
outloose: A loosing from; an escape; an outlet; an evasion. [Obs.]That "whereas" gives me an outloose. Selden.
outlope: An excursion. [Obs.] Florio.
outlying: Lying or being at a distance from the central part, or the mainbody; being on, or beyond, the frontier; exterior; remote; detached.
outmantle: To excel in mantling; hence, to excel in splendor, as of dress.[R.]And with poetic trappings grace thy prose, Till it outmantle all thepride of verse. Cowper.
outmarch: To surpass in marching; to march faster than, or so as to leavebehind.
outmeasure: To exceed in measure or extent; to measure more than. Sir T.Browne.
outmost: Farthest from the middle or interior; farthest outward;outermost.
outmount: To mount above. [R.]
outness: The state or quality of being distanguishable from theperceiving mind, by being in space, and possessing marerial quality;externality; objectivity.The outness of the objects of sense. Sir W. Hamiltom.
outnoise: To exceed in noise; to surpass in noisiness. [R.] Fuller.
outnumber: To exceed in number.
outpace: To outgo; to move faster than; to leave behind. [R.] Lamb.
outparamour: To exceed in the number of mistresses. [R.] Shak.
outparish: A parish lying without the walls of, or in a remote part of, atown. Graunt.
outpart: An outlying part. [R.] Ayliffe.
outpass: To pass beyond; to exceed in progress.
outpassion: To exceed in passion.
outpeer: To excel. [R.] Shak.
outpension: To grant an outpension to.
outplay: To excel or defeat in a game; to play better than; as, to beoutplayed in tennis or ball.
outpoise: To outweigh. Howell.
outport: A harbor or port at some distance from the chief town or seatof trade. Macaulay.
outpour: To pour out. Milton.
outpower: To excel in power; to overpover. [Obs.] Fuller.
outpray: To exceed or excel in prayer.
outpreach: To surpass in preaching.And for a villain's quick conversion A pillory can outpreach aparson. Trumbull.
outprize: To prize beyong value, or in excess; to exceed in value. [Obs.]Shak.
output: That which is thrown out as products of the metabolic activityof the body; the egesta other than the fæces. See Income.
outquench: To quench entirely; to extinguish. "The candlelightoutquenched." Spenser.
outrage: To rage in excess of. [R.] Young.
outrageous: Of the nature of an outrage; exceeding the limits of right,reason, or decency; involving or doing an outrage; furious; violent;atrocious. "Outrageous weeping." Chaucer. "The most outrageousvillainies." Sir P. Sidney. "The vile, outrageous crimes." Shak."Outrageous panegyric." Dryden.
outrance: The utmost or last extremity. Combat à outrance, a fight to theend, or to the death.
outrank: To exceed in rank; hence, to take precedence of.
outray: To outshine. [R.] Skelton.
outraye: See Outrage, v. i. [Obs.]This warn I you, that ye not suddenly Out of yourself for no woeshould outraye. Chaucer.
outraze: To obliterate. [Obs.] Sandys.
outre: Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre.
outreach: To reach beyond.
outreason: To excel or surpass in reasoning; to reason better than. South.
outreckon: To exceed in reckoning or computation. Bp. Pearson.
outrecuidance: Excessive presumption. [R.] B. Jonson.
outrede: To surpass in giving rede, or counsel. [Obs.] See Atrede.Chaucer.
outreign: To go beyond in reigning; to reign through the whole of, orlonger than. [R.] Spenser.
outride: To surpass in speed of riding; to ride beyond or faster than.Shak.
outring: To excel in volume of ringing sound; to ring louder than.
outrival: To surpass in a rivalry.
outrive: To river; to sever. [Obs.] Fairfax.
outroar: To exceed in roaring.
outromance: To exceed in romantic character. [R.] Fuller.
outroom: An outer room. [R.] Fuller.
outroot: To eradicate; to extirpate.
outrun: To exceed, or leave behind, in running; to run faster than; tooutstrip; to go beyond.Your zeal outruns my wishes. Sir W. Scott.The other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulcher.Jhon xx. 4.
outrunner: An offshoot; a branch. [R.] "Some outrunner of the river."Lauson.
outrush: To rush out; to issue, or ru Garth.
outsail: To excel, or to leave behind, in sailing; to sail faster than.Beau. & Fl.
outscent: To exceed in odor. Fuller.
outscold: To exceed in scolding. Shak.
outscorn: To confront, or subdue, with greater scorn. Shak.
outscouring: That which is scoured out o Buckland.
outscout: To overpower by disdain; to outface. [Obs.] Marston.
outsee: To see beyond; to excel in cer
outsentry: A sentry who guards the entrance or approach to a place; anoutguard.
outset: A setting out, starting, or beginning. "The outset of apolitical journey." Burke.Giving a proper direction to this outset of life. J. Hawes.
outsettler: One who settles at a distance, or away, from others.
outshine: To shine forth. "Bright, outshining beams." Shak.
outshoot: To exceed or excel in shooting; to shoot beyond. Bacon.Men are resolved never to outshoot their forefathers' mark. Norris.
outshut: To shut out. [R.] Donne.
outside: or prep. On or to the outside (of); without; on the exterior;as, to ride outside the coach; he stayed outside.
outsing: To surpass in singing.
outsit: To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond thetime of; to outstay.
outskirt: A part remote from the center; outer edge; border; -- usuallyin the plural; as, the outskirts of a town. Wordsworth.The outskirts of his march of mystery. Keble.
outsleep: To exceed in sleeping. Shak.
outslide: To slide outward, onward, or forward; to advance by sliding.[Poetic]At last our grating keels outslide. Whittier.
outsoar: To soar beyond or above.
outsole: The outside sole of a boot or shoe.
outsound: To surpass in sounding.
outspan: To unyoke or disengage, as oxen from a wagon. [S. Africa]
outsparkle: To exceed in sparkling.
outspeed: To excel in speed.Outspeed the realized miracles of steam. Talfourd.
outspend: Outlay; expenditure. [R.]A mere outspend of savageness. I. Taylor.
outspin: To spin out; to finish.
outspoken: Speaking, or spoken, freely, openly, or boldly; as, anoutspoken man; an outspoken rebuke.-- Out*spo"ken*ness, n.
outsport: To exceed in sporting. [R.] "Not to outsport discretion." Shak.
outspread: To spread out; to expand; -- usually as a past part. or adj.
outspring: To spring out; to issue.
outstand: To stand out, or project, from a surface or mass; hence, toremain standing out.
outstanding: That stands out; undischarged; uncollected; not paid; as,outstanding obligations.Revenues . . . as well outstanding as collected. A. Hamilton.
outstare: To excel or overcome in staring; to face down.I would outstare the sternest eyes that look. Shak.
outstart: To start out or up. Chaucer.
outstay: To stay beyond or longer than.She concluded to outstay him. Mad. D' Arblay.
outstep: To exceed in stepping.
outstorm: To exceed in storming.Insults the tempest and outstorms the skies. J. Barlow.
outstreet: A street remote from the center of a town. Johnson.
outstretch: To stretch out. Milton.
outstride: To surpass in striding.
outstrike: To strike out; to strike faster than. Shak.
outstrip: To go faster than; to outrun; to advance beyond; to leavebehing.Appetites which . . . had outstripped the hours. Southey.He still outstript me in the race. Tennyson.
outsuffer: To exceed in suffering.
outswear: To exceed in swearing.
outsweeten: To surpass in sweetness. [R.] Shak.
outtake: Except. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.
outtaken: or prep. Excepted; save. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.
outtalk: To overpower by talking; to exceed in talking; to talk down.Shak.
outtell: To surpass in telling, counting, or reckoning. "I have outtoldthe clock." Beau. & Fl.
outterm: An external or superficial thing; outward manner; superficialremark, etc. [Obs.]Not to bear cold forms, nor men's outterms. B. Jonson.
outtoil: To exceed in toiling.
outtongue: To silence by talk, clamor, or noise. [R.] Shak.
outtop: To overtop. [Obs.]
outtravel: To exceed in speed o Mad. D' Arblay.
outtwine: To disentangle. [Obs.]
outvalue: To exceed in value. Boyle.
outvenom: To exceed in venom.
outvie: To exceed in vying. Dryden.
outvillain: To exceed in villainy.
outvoice: To exceed in noise. Shak.
outvote: To exceed in the number of votes given; to defeat by votes.South.
outwalk: To excel in walking; to leave behind in walking. B. Jonson.
outwall: The exterior wall; the outside surface, or appearance. Shak.
outward: External form; exterior. [R.]So fair an outward and such stuff within. Shak.
outwards: See Outward, adv.
outwatch: To exceed in watching.
outway: A way out; exit. [R.]In divers streets and outways multiplied. P. Fletcher.
outweary: To weary out. Cowley.
outweed: To weed out. [Obs.]
outweep: To exceed in weeping.
outweigh: To exceed in weight or value.
outwell: To pour out. [Obs.] Spenser.
outwent: imp. of Outgo.
outwhore: To exceed in lewdness.
outwin: To win a way out of. [Obs.]
outwind: To extricate by winding; to unloose. [R.] Spenser. Dr. H. More.
outwing: To surpass, exceed, or outstrip in flying. Garth.
outwit: To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreachby superior craft.They did so much outwit and outwealth us ! Gauden.
outwoe: To exceed in woe. [Obs.]
outwork: To exceed in working; to work more or faster than.
outworth: To exceed in worth. [R.]
outwrest: To extort; to draw from or forth by violence. [Obs.] Spenser.
outwrite: To exceed or excel in writing.
outzany: To exceed in buffoonery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ouvarovite: Chrome garnet.
ouze: See Ooze. [Obs.]
ouzel: Same as Ousel.The mellow ouzel fluted in the elm. Tennyson.
ova: See Ovum.
oval: Broadly elliptical. Oval chuck (Mech.), a lathe chuck soconstructed that work attached to it, and cut by the turning tool inthe usual manner, becomes of an oval form.
ovaliform: Having the form of an egg; having a figure such that anysection in the direction of the shorter diameter will be circular,and any in the direction of the longer diameter will be oval.
ovally: In an oval form.
ovant: Exultant. [Obs.] Holland.
ovariole: One of the tubes of which the ovaries of most insects arecomposed.
ovariotomist: One who performs, or is skilled in, ovariotomy.
ovariotomy: The operation of removing one or both of the ovaries;oöphorectomy.
ovarious: Consisting of eggs; as, ovarious food. [R.] Thomson.
ovaritis: Inflammation of the ovaries.
ovarium: An ovary. See Ovary.
ovary: That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in mostflowering plants develops into the fruit. See Illust. of Flower.
ovate: Having the shape of an egg, or of the longitudinal sectior ofan egg, with the broader end basal. Gray.
ovate-acuminate: Having an ovate form, but narrowed at the end into a slenderpoint.
ovate-cylindraceous: Having a form intermediate between ovate and cylindraceous.
ovate-lanceolate: Having a form intermediate between ovate and lanceolate.
ovate-oblong: Oblong. with one end narrower than the other; ovato-oblong.
ovate-rotundate: Having a form intermediate between that of an egg and a sphere;roundly ovate.
ovate-subulate: Having an ovate form, but with a subulate tip or extremity.
ovated: Ovate.
ovation: A lesser kind of triumph allowed to a commander for an easy,bloodless victory, or a victory over slaves.
ovato-acuminate: Same as Ovate-acuminate.
ovato-cylindraceous: Same as Ovate-cylindraceous.
ovato-oblong: Same as Ovate-oblong.
ovato-rotundate: Same as Ovate-rotundate.
oven: A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used forbaking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed orportable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, achamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting.
over: Upper; covering; higher; superior; also, excessive; too much ortoo great; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overshoes, overcoat,over-garment, overlord, overwork, overhaste.
over-arm: Done (as bowling or pitching) with the arm raised above theshoulder. See Overhard. "An over-arm with a round-arm bowler." R. A.Proctor.
over-busy: Too busy; officious.
over-garment: An outer garment.
over-story: The clearstory, or upper story, of a building.
overabound: To be exceedingly plenty or superabundant. Pope.
overact: To act more than is necessary; to go to excess in action. B.Jonson.
overaction: Per
overaffect: To affect or care for unduly. [Obs.] Milton.
overagitate: To agitate or discuss beyond what is expedient. Bp. Hall.
overall: Everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer.
overanxiety: The state of being overanxious; excessive anxiety.
overanxious: Anxious in an excessive or needless degree.-- O"ver*anx"ious*ly, adv.
overarch: To make or place an arch over; to hang over like an arch."Brown with o'erarching shades." Pope.
overawe: To awe exceedingly; to subjugate or restrain by awe or greatfear.The king was present in person to overlook the magistrates, andoverawe these subjects with the terror of his sword. Spenser.
overawful: Awful, or reverential, in an excessive degree. [R.] Milton.
overbalance: Excess of weight or value; something more than an equivalent;as, an overbalance of exports. J. Edwards.
overbarren: Excessively barren.
overbattle: Excessively fertile; bearing rank or noxious growths. [Obs.]"Overbattle grounds." Hooker.
overbear: To bear fruit or offspring to excess; to be too prolific.
overbend: To bend to excess.
overbid: To bid or offer beyond, or in excess of. Dryden.
overbide: To outlive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
overblow: To force so much wind into a pipe that it produces an overtone,or a note higher than the natural note; thus, the upper octaves of aflute are produced by overblowing.
overboard: Over the side of a ship; hence, from on board of a ship, intothe water; as, to fall overboard. To throw overboard, to discard; toabandon, as a dependent or friend.
overboil: To boil over or unduly.Nor is discontent to keep the mind Deep in its fountain, lest itoverboil In the hot throng. Byron.
overbold: Excessively or presumptuously bold; impudent. Shak.-- O"ver*bold"ly, adv.
overbookish: Excessively bookish.
overbounteous: Bounteous to excess.
overbow: To bend or bow over; to bend in a contrary direction. [Obs.]Fuller.
overbreed: To breed to excess.
overbrim: To flow over the brim; to be so full as to overflow. [R.]
overbrow: To hang over like a brow; to impend over. [Poetic] Longfellow.Did with a huge projection overbrow Large space beneath. Wordsworth.
overbuilt: Having too many buildings; as, an overbuilt part of a town.
overbulk: To oppress by bulk; to overtower. [Obs. & R.] Shak.
overburden: To load with too great weight or too much care, etc. Sir P.Sidney.
overburdensome: Too burdensome.
overburn: To burn too much; to be overzealous.
overcanopy: To cover as with a canopy. Shak.
overcapable: Too capable. [R.]Overcapable of such pleasing errors. Hooker.
overcare: Excessive care. Dryden.
overcareful: Too careful. Shak.
overcarking: Too anxious; too full of care. [Archaic] Fuller.
overcarry: To carry too far; to carry beyond the proper point. Hayward.
overcast: To take long, loose stitches over (the raw edges of a seam) toprevent raveling.
overcatch: To overtake. [Obs.]
overcautious: Too cautious; cautious or prudent to excess.-- O"ver*cau"tious*ly, adv.-- O"ver*cau"tiou*ness, n.
overchange: Too much or too frequent change; fickleness. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
overcharge: To make excessive charges.
overclimb: To climb over. Surrey.
overcloud: To cover or overspread with clouds; to becloud; to overcast.
overcloy: To fill beyond satiety. Shak.
overcoat: A coat worn over the other clothing; a greatcoat; a topcoat.
overcold: Cold to excess. Wiseman.
overcolor: To color too highly.
overcome: To gain the superiority; to be victorious. Rev. iii. 21.
overcomer: One who overcomes.
overcoming: Conquering; subduing.-- O`ver*com"ing*ly, adv.
overconfidence: Excessive confidence; too great reliance or trust.
overconfident: Confident to excess.-- O"ver*con"fi*dent*ly, adv.
overcostly: Too costly. Milton.
overcount: To rate too high; to outnumber. Shak.
overcover: To cover up. Shak.
overcredulous: Too credulous.
overcrow: To crow, exult, or boast, over; to overpower. Spenser. Shak.
overcrowd: To crowd too much.
overcunning: Exceedingly or excessively cunning.
overcurious: Too curious.
overdare: To dare too much or rashly; to be too daring.
overdate: To date later than the true or proper period. Milton.
overdeal: The excess. [Obs.]The overdeal in the price will be double. Holland.
overdelicate: Too delicate.
overdelighted: Delighted beyond measure.
overdevelop: To develop excessively; specif. (Photog.),
overdight: Covered over. [Obs.] Spenser.
overdo: To labor too hard; to do too much.
overdoer: One who overdoes.
overdose: To dose to excess; to give an overdose, or too many doses, to.
overdraft: The act of overdrawing; also, the amount or sum overdrawn.
overdraw: To make drafts upon or against, in excess of the proper amountor limit.
overdress: To dress or adorn to excess; to dress too much. Pope.
overdrink: To drink to excess.
overdrive: To drive too hard, or far, or beyond strength.
overdrown: To wet or drench to excess. [Obs.] W. Browne.
overdry: To dry too much. Burton.
overdue: Due and more than due; delayed beyond the proper time ofarrival or payment, etc.; as, an overdue vessel; an overdue note.
overdye: To dye with excess of color; to put one color over (another).Shak.
overeager: Too eager; too impatient.-- O`ver*ea"ger*ly, adv.-- O"ver*ea"ger*ness, n.
overearnest: Too earnest.-- O"ver*ear"nest*ly, adv.-- O"ver*ear"nest*ness, n.
overelegant: Too elegant. Johnson.
overempty: To make too empty; to exhaust. [R.] Carew.
overest: Uppermost; outermost.Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer.
overestimate: To estimate too highly; to overvalue.
overexcite: To excite too much.
overexcitement: Excess of excitement; the state of being overexcited.
overexert: To exert too much.
overexertion: Excessive exertion.
overexpose: To expose excessively; specif. (Photog.),
overexquisite: Too exquisite; too exact or nice; too careful.
overfall: A turbulent surface of water, caused by strong currents settingover submerged ridges; also, a dangerous submerged ridge or shoal.
overfatigue: Excessive fatigue.
overfeed: To feed to excess; to surfeit.
overfierce: Excessively fierce.
overfill: To fill to excess; to surcharge.
overfish: To fish to excess.
overfloat: To overflow. [R.] Dryden.
overflowing: An overflow; that which overflows; exuberance; copiousness.He was ready to bestow the overflowings of his full mind on anybodywho would start a subject. Macaulay.
overflowingly: In great abundance; exuberantly. Boyle.
overflush: To flush to excess. [R.]
overflutter: To flutter over.
overflux: Overflow; exuberance. [R.]
overfly: To cross or pass over by flight. Byron.
overfond: , Milton.-- O"ver*fond"ly, adv.-- O"ver*fond"ness, n.
overforce: Excessive force; violence.
overforward: Forward to excess; too forward.-- O"ver*for"ward*ness, n.
overfree: Free to excess; too liberal; too familiar.-- O"ver*free"ly, adv.
overfreight: To put too much freight in or upon; to load too full, or tooheavily; to overload.
overfrequent: Too frequent.
overfrieze: To cover with a frieze, or as with a frieze. E. Hall.
overfront: To confront; to oppose; to withstand. [Obs.] Milton.
overfruitful: Too fruitful.
overfull: Too full; filled to overflowing; excessively full; surfeited.Shak.
overfullness: The state of being excessively or abnormally full, so as tocause overflow, distention, or congestion; excess of fullness;surfeit.
overgarrison: To garrison to excess.
overgaze: To gaze; to overlook. [Poetic] "Earth's o'ergazing mountains."Byron.
overgild: To gild over; to varnish.
overgird: To gird too closely. [R.]
overgive: To give over; to surrender; to yield. [Obs.] Spenser.
overglad: Excessively or unduly glad.
overglance: To glance over.
overglide: To glide over. Wyatt.
overgloom: To spread gloom over; to make gloomy; to overshadow. [R.]Overgloomed by memories of sorrow. De Quincey.
overgorge: To gorge to excess.
overgrace: To grace or honor exceedingly or beyond desert. [R.] Beau. &Fl.
overgrassed: Overstocked, or overgrown, or covered, with grass. [Obs.]Spenser.
overgreat: Too great.
overgreatness: Excessive greatness.
overgreedy: Excessively greedy.
overgross: Too gross.
overground: Situated over or above ground; as, the overground portion of aplant.
overgrow: To grow beyond the fit or natural size; as, a huge, overgrownox. L'Estrange.
overgrowth: Excessive growth.
overhale: See Overhaul. [Obs.]
overhall: See Overhaul. [Obs.]
overhand: The upper hand; advantage; superiority; mastery.He had gotten thereby a great overhand on me. Sir T. More.
overhandle: To handle, or use, too much; to mention too often. Shak.
overhang: To jut over. Milton.
overhappy: Exceedingly happy. Shak.
overharden: To harden too much; to make too hard. Boyle.
overhardy: Too hardy; overbold.
overhaste: Too great haste.
overhasty: Too hasty; precipitate; rash.-- O"ver*has"ti*ly, adv.-- O`ver*has"ti*ness, n.
overhaul: To gain upon in a chase; to overtake. To overhaul a tackle, topull on the leading parts so as to separate the blocks.-- To overhaul running rigging, to keep it clear, and see that nohitch occurs.
overhead: Aloft; above; in or attached to the ceiling or roof; in thestory or upon the floor above; in the zenith.While overhead the moon Sits arbitress. Milton.
overheat: To heat to excess; to superheat. Cowper.
overheavy: Excessively heavy.
overhele: To hele or cover over. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
overhent: To overtake. [Obs.]So forth he went and soon them overhent. Spenser.
overhigh: Too high.
overhighly: Too highly; too greatly.
overhip: To pass over by, or as by a hop; to skip over; hence, tooverpass. [Obs.] "When the time is overhipt." Holland.
overhold: To hold or value too highly; to estimate at too dear a rate.[Obs.] Shak.
overinfluence: To influence in an excessive degree; to have undue influenceover.
overinform: To inform, fill, or animate, excessively. [R.] Johnson.
overissue: An excessive issue; an issue, as of notes or bonds, exceedingthe limit of capital, credit, or authority.An overissue of government paper. Brougham.
overjealous: Excessively jealous; too jealous.
overjoy: To make excessively joyful; to gratify extremely.
overjump: To jump over; hence, to omit; to ignore. Marston.
overking: A king who has sovereignty over inferior kings or rulingprinces. J. R. Green.
overknowing: Too knowing or too cunning.
overlade: To load with too great a cargo; to overburden; to overload.Spenser.
overland: Being, or accomplished, over the land, instead of by sea; as,an overland journey.
overlander: One who travels over lands or countries; one who travelsoverland.
overlanguaged: Employing too many words; diffuse. Lowell.
overlap: To lap over; to lap.
overlarge: Too large; too great.
overlargeness: Excess of size or bulk.
overlash: To drive on rashly; to go to excess; hence, to exaggerate; toboast. [Obs.] Barrow.
overlashing: Excess; exaggeration. [Obs.]
overlate: Too late; exceedingly late.
overlave: To lave or bathe over.
overlavish: Lavish to excess.
overlay: To put an overlay on.
overlayer: One who overlays; that with which anything is overlaid.
overlaying: A superficial covering; a coating.
overlead: To domineer over; to affront; to treat with indignity. [Obs.]Chaucer.
overleap: To leap over or across; hence, to omit; to ignore. "Let meo'erleap that custom." Shak.
overlearned: Too learned.-- O"ver*learn"ed, adv.-- O"ver*learn"ed*ness, n.
overleather: Upper leather. Shak.
overleaven: To leaven too much; hence, to change excessively; to spoil.[Obs.]
overliberal: Too liberal.
overliberally: In an overliberal manner.
overlick: To lick over.
overlie: To lie over or upon; specifically, to suffocate by lying upon;as, to overlie an infant. Quain.A woman by negligence overlieth her child in her sleeping. Chaucer.
overlight: Too strong a light. Bacon.
overliness: The quality or state of being overly; carelessness. [Obs.] Bp.Hall.
overlinger: To cause to linger; to detain too long. [Obs.] Fuller.
overlip: The upper lip. [Obs.] Chaucer.
overlive: To outlive. Sir P. Sidney.The culture of Northumbria overlived the term of its politicalsupermacy. Earle.
overliver: A survivor. Bacon.
overload: To load or fill to excess; to load too heavily.
overlogical: Excessively logical; adhering too closely to the forms or rulesof logic.
overlong: Too long. Shak.
overlooker: One who overlooks.
overloop: See Orlop. [Obs.]
overlord: One who is lord over another or others; a superior lord; amaster. Freeman.
overlordship: Lordship or supremacy of a person or a people over others. J.R. Green.
overloud: Too loud; noisy.
overlove: To love to excess.
overluscious: Excessively luscious.
overlusty: Too lusty, or lively. Shak.
overly: In an overly manner. [Archaic]
overlying: Lying over or upon something; as, overlying rocks.
overmagnify: To magnify too much. Bp. Hall.
overmalapert: Excessively malapert or impudent. [Obs.] Prynne.
overmanner: In an excessive manner; excessively. [Obs.] Wiclif.
overmarch: To march too far, or too much; to exhaust by marching. Baker.
overmast: To furnish (a vessel) with too long or too heavy a mast ormasts.
overmaster: To overpower; to subdue; to vanquish; to govern.
overmatch: One superior in power; also, an unequal match; a contest inwhich one of the opponents is overmatched. Milton. D. Webster.
overmeasure: To measure or estimate too largely.
overmeddle: To meddle unduly.
overmeddling: Excessive interference. "Justly shent for their overmeddling."Fuller.
overmellow: Too mellow; overripe.
overmerit: Excessive merit. Bacon.
overmickle: Overmuch. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
overmix: To mix with too much.
overmodest: Modest to excess; bashful.-- O"ver*mod"est*ly, adv.
overmoist: Excessively moist. Bacon.
overmoisture: Excess of moisture.
overmore: Beyond; moreover. [Obs.]
overmorrow: The day after or following to-morrow. [Obs.] Bible (1551).
overmost: Over the rest in authority; above all others; highest. [Obs.]Fabyan.
overmount: To mount over; to go higher than; to rise above.
overmuch: Too much.-- adv.
overmuchness: The quality or state of being in excess; superabundance. [R.]B. Jonson.
overmultiply: To multiply or increase too much; to repeat too often.
overmultitude: To outnumber. [Obs.]
overname: To name over or in a series; to recount. [Obs.] Shak.
overneat: Excessively neat. Spectator.
overnice: Excessively nice; fastidious. Bp. Hall.-- O"ver*nice"ly, adv.-- O"ver*nice"ness, n.
overnight: The fore part of the night last past; the previous evening.[R.] Shak.
overnoise: To overpower by noise.
overnumerous: Excessively numerous; too many.
overoffice: To domineer over by virtue of office. [Obs.] Shak.
overofficious: Too busy; too ready to intermeddle; too officious. Collier.
overpaint: To color or describe too strongly. Sir W. Raleigh.
overpamper: To pamper excessively; to feed or dress too much. Dryton.
overpart: To give too important or difficult a part to. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
overpass: To pass over, away, or off.
overpassionate: Passionate to excess.-- O"ver*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.
overpatient: Patient to excess.
overpay: To pay too much to; to reward too highly.
overpeer: To peer over; to rise above.
overpeople: To people too densely.
overperch: To perch upon; to fly over. [Obs.] Shak.
overpersuade: To persuade or influence against one's inclination or judgment.Pope.
overpester: To pester exceedingly or excessively. Sir W. Raleigh.
overpicture: To surpass nature in the picture or representation of. [Obs.]"O'erpicturing that Venus." Shak.
overplease: To please excessively.
overplus: That which remains after a supply, or beyond a quantityproposed; surplus. Shak. "The overplus of a great fortune." Addison.
overply: To ply to excess; to exert with too much vigor; to overwork.Milton.
overpoise: To outweigh; to overbalance. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
overpolish: To polish too much.
overponderous: Too heavy.
overpost: To post over; to pass over swiftly, as by post. Shak.
overpotent: Too potent or powerful.
overpower: To excel or exceed in power; to cause to yield; to vanquish; tosubdue; as, the light overpowers the eyes. "And overpower'd thatgallant few." Wordsworth.
overpowering: Excelling in power; too powerful; irresistible.-- O`ver*pow"er*ing*ly, adv.
overpraise: To praise excessively or unduly.
overpraising: The act of praising unduly; excessive praise. Milton.
overpressure: Excessive pressure or urging. London Athenæum.
overprize: Toprize excessively; to overvalue. Sir H. Wotton.
overproduction: Excessive production; supply beyond the demand. J. S. Mill.
overprompt: Too prompt; too ready or eager; precipitate.-- O`ver*prompt"ness, n.
overproof: Containing more alcohol than proof spirit; stronger than proofspirit; that is, containing more than 49.3 per cent by weight ofalcohol.
overproportion: To make of too great proportion.
overproud: Exceedingly or unduly proud. "Overproud of his victory."Milton.
overprovident: Too provident.
overprovoke: To provoke excessively. Bp. Hall.
overquell: To quell or subdue completely. [R.] Bp. Hall.
overquietness: Too much quietness. Sir. T. Browne.
overrake: To rake over, or sweep across, from end to end, as waves thatbreak over a vessel anchored with head to the sea.
overrank: Too rank or luxuriant.
overrate: To rate or value too highly.
overreach: The act of striking the heel of the fore foot with the toe ofthe hind foot; -- said of horses.
overreacher: One who overreaches; one who cheats; a cheat.
overread: To read over, or peruse. Shak.
overready: Too ready.-- O"ver*read"*i*ly, adv.-- O"ver*read"i*ness, n.
overreckon: To reckon too highly.
overred: To smear with red. [Obs.]
overrefine: To refine too much.
overrefinement: Excessive refinement.
overrent: To rent for too much.
overrich: Exccessively rich.
overrigged: Having too much rigging.
overrighteous: Excessively righteous; -- usually implying hypocrisy.
overrigid: Too rigid; too severe.
overrigorous: Too rigorous; harsh.
overripe: Matured to excess. Milton.
overripen: To make too ripe. Shak.
overroast: To roast too much. Shak.
overrule: To supersede, reject, annul, or rule against; as, the plea, orthe decision, was overruled by the court.
overruler: One who, or that which, controls, governs, or determines. SirP. Sidney.
overruling: Exerting controlling power; as, an overruling Providence.-- O`ver*rul"ing*ly, adv.
overrun: To extend beyond its due or desired length; as, a line, oradvertisement, overruns.
overrunner: One that overruns. Lovelace.
oversaturate: To saturate to excess.
oversay: To say over; to repeat. Ford.
overscrupulosity: Overscrupulousness.
overscrupulous: Scrupulous to excess.
overscrupulousness: The quality or state of being overscrupulous; excess ofscrupulousness.
oversea: Beyond the sea; foreign.
oversearch: To search all over.
overseason: To season too highly.
oversee: To see too or too much; hence, to be deceived. [Obs.]The most expert gamesters may sometimes oversee. Fuller.Your partiality to me is much overseen, if you think me fit tocorrect your Latin. Walpole.
overseer: One who oversees; a superintendent; a supervisor; as, anoverseer of a mill; specifically, one or certain public officers; as,an overseer of the poor; an overseer of highways.
overseership: The office of an overseer.
overset: To turn, or to be turned, over; to be upset. Mortimer.
overshade: To cover with shade; to render dark or gloomy; to overshadow.Shak.
overshadower: One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything. Bacon.
overshadowy: Overshadowing. [R.]
overshake: To shake over or away; to drive away; to disperse. [Obs.]Chaucer.
overshoe: A shoe that is worn over another for protection from wet or forextra warmth; esp., an India-rubber shoe; a galoche.
overshoot: To fly beyond the mark. Collier.
overshot: From Overshoot, v. t. Overshot wheel, a vertical water wheel,the circumference of which is covered with cavities or buckets, andwhich is turned by water which shoots over the top of it, filling thebuckets on the farther side and acting chiefly by its we'ght.
oversize: To surpass in size.
overskip: To skip or leap over; to treat with indifference. Shak.
overskirt: An upper skirt, shorter than the dress, and usually draped.
overslaugh: A bar in a river; as, the overslaugh in the Hudson River.[Local, U. S.] Bartlett.
oversleep: To sleep beyond; as, to oversleep one's self or one's usualhour of rising.
overslide: To slide over or by.
overslip: To slip or slide over; to pass easily or carelessly beyond; toomit; to neglect; as, to overslip time or opportunity.
overslop: An outer garment, or slop. [Obs.] Chaucer.
overslow: To render slow; to check; to curb. [Obs.] Hammond.
oversman: An umpire; a third arbiter, appointed when two arbiters,previously selected, disagree.
oversnow: To cover with snow, or as with snow. [Poetic] Shak. Dryden.
oversoon: Too soon. Sir P. Sidney.
oversorrow: To grieve or afflict to excess. [Obs.] Milton.
oversoul: The all-containing soul. [R.]That unity, that oversout, within which every man's particular beingis contained and made one with all other. Emerson.
oversow: To sow where something has already been sown. [R.]His enemy came and oversowed cockle among the wheat. Matt. x
overspan: To reach or extend over.
overspeak: To exceed in speaking; to speak too much; to use too manywords.
overspin: To spin out to too great length; to protract unduly. W.Cartwright.
overspread: To spread over; to cover; as, the deluge overspread the earth.Chaucer.Those nations of the North Which overspread the world. Drayton.
overspring: To spring or leap over.
overstand: To stand on the price or conditions of, so as to lose a sale;to lose by an extravagant price or hard conditions. [Obs.]What madman would o'erstand his market twice Dryden.
overstare: To outstare. [Obs.] Shak.
overstate: To state in too strong terms; to exaggerate. Fuller.
overstatement: An exaggerated statement or account.
overstay: To stay beyond the time or the limits of; as, to overstay theappointed time. Bp. Hall.
overstep: To step over or beyond; to transgress. Shak.
overstock: Stock in excess. Tatler.
overstore: To overstock. Sir. M. Hale.
overstrain: To strain one's self to excess. Dryden.
overstraitly: Too straitly or strictly. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
overstraw: To overstrew. [Obs.] Shak.
overstrew: To strew or scatter over.
overstrict: Excessively strict.
overstride: To stride over or beyond.
overstrike: To strike beyond. [Obs.]
overstrow: See Overstrew.
overstudious: Too studious.
oversubtile: Excessively subtile.
oversum: A sum or quantity over; surplus. [Obs.] Holinshed.
oversupply: To supply in excess.
oversure: Excessively sure.
oversway: To bear sway over.
overswell: To swell or rise above; to overflow. [R.] Shak.
overt: Not covert; open; public; manifest; as, an overt act oftreason. Macaulay.No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony oftwo witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court.Constitution of the U. S.
overtalk: To talk to excess. Milton.
overtask: To task too heavily.
overtax: To tax or to task too heavily.
overtedious: Too tedious.
overtempt: To tempt exceedingly, or beyond the power of resistance.Milton.
overthwart: Across; crosswise; transversely. "Y'clenched overthwart andendelong." Chaucer.
overthwartly: In an overthwart manner;across; also, perversely. [Obs.]Peacham.
overthwartness: The state of being overthwart; perverseness. [Obs.] LordHerbert.
overtilt: To tilt over; to overturn.
overtime: Time beyond, or in excess of, a limit; esp., extra workingtime.
overtire: To tire to excess; to exhaust.
overtitle: To give too high a title to.
overtly: Publicly; openly.
overtoil: To overwork.
overtone: One of the harmonics faintly heard with and above a tone as itdies away, produced by some aliquot portion of the vibrating sting orcolumn of air which yields the fundamental tone; one of the naturalharmonic scale of tones, as the octave, twelfth, fifteenth, etc.; analiquot or "partial" tone; a harmonic. See Harmonic, and Tone.Tyndall.
overtower: To tower over or above.
overtrade: To trade beyond one's capital; to buy goods beyond the means ofpaying for or seleng them; to overstock the market.
overtrading: The act or practice of buying goods beyond the means ofpayment; a glutting of the market.
overtread: To tread over or upon.
overtrip: To trip over nimbly.
overtroubled: Excessively troubled.
overtrow: To be too trustful or confident; to trust too much. [Obs.]Wyclif
overtrust: Excessive confidence.
overture: A composition, for a full orchestra, designed as anintroduction to an oratorio, opera, or ballet, or as an independentpiece; -- called in the latter case a concert overture.
overturn: The act off overturning, or the state of being overturned orsubverted; overthrow; as, an overturn of parties.
overturnable: Capable of being, or liable to be, overturned or subverted.
overturner: One who overturns. South.
overvail: See Overveil.
overvaluation: Excessive valuation; overestimate.
overveil: To veil or cover. Shak.
overview: An inspection or overlooking. [Obs.] Shak.
overvote: To outvote; to outnumber in votes given. [R.] Eikon Basilike.
overwalk: To walk over or upon.
overwar: To defeat. [Obs.] Warner.
overwary: Too wary; too cautious.
overwash: To overflow. Holinshed.
overwasted: Wasted or worn out; [Obs.] Drayton.
overwax: To wax or grow too rapindly or too much. [Obs.] R. ofGloucester.
overweak: Too weak; too feeble.
overwear: To wear too much; to wear out. Drayton.
overweary: To weary too much; to tire out. Dryden.
overweather: To expose too long to the influence of the weather. [Obs.]Shak.
overween: To think too highly or arrogantly; to regard one's own thinkingor conclusions too highly; hence, to egotistic, arrogant, or rash, inopinion; to think conceitedly; to presume.They that overween, And at thy growing virtues fret their spleen.Milton.
overweener: One who overweens. [R.]The conceits of warmed or overweening brain. Locke.
overweening: Unduly confident; arrogant; presumptuous; conceited.-- O`ver*ween"ingly, adv. Milton.-- O`ver*ween"ing*ness, n.Here's an overweening rogue. Shak.
overweigh: To exceed in weight; to overbalance; to weigh down. Drayton.Hooker.
overweight: Overweighing; excessive. [Obs.] "Of no overweight worth."Fuller.
overwell: To overflow. R. D. Blackmore.
overwet: Excessive wetness. [Obs.]Another ill accident is, overwet at sowing time. Bacon.
overwhelm: , n. The act of overwhelming. [R.]
overwhelming: Overpowering; irresistible.-- O`ver*whelm"ing*ly, adv.
overwind: To wind too tightly, as a spring, or too far, as a hoistingrope on a drum.
overwing: To outflank. [Obs.] Milton.
overwise: Too wise; affectedly wise.-- O`ver*wise"ly, adv.-- O`ver*wise"ness, n.
overwit: To outwit. Swift.
overword: To say in too many words; to express verbosely. Hales.
overwork: To work too much, or beyond one's strength.
overworn: Worn out or subdued by toil; worn out so as to be trite.
overwrest: To wrest or force from the natural or proper position. Shak.
overwrestle: To subdue by wrestling. [Obs.] Spenser.
overwrought: Wrought upon excessively; overworked; overexcited.
overzeal: Excess of zeal. Fairfax.
overzealous: Too zealous.
ovicapsule: The outer layer of a Graafian follicle.
ovicell: One of the dilatations of the body wall of Bryozoa in which theova sometimes undegro the first stages of their development. SeeIllust. of Chilostoma.
ovicular: Of or pertaining to an egg.
ovicyst: The pouch in which incubation takes place in some Tunicata.
ovidian: Of or pertaining to the Latin poet Ovid; resembling the styleof Ovid.
oviducal: Of or pertaining to oviducts; as, oviducal glands.
oviduct: A tube, or duct, for the passage of ova from the ovary to theexterior of the animal or to the part where further development takesplace. In mammals the oviducts are also called Fallopian tubes.
oviferous: Egg-bearing; -- applied particularly to certain receptacles, asin Crustacea, that retain the eggs after they have been excluded fromthe formative organs, until they are hatched.
oviform: Having the form or figure of an egg; egg-shaped; as, an oviformleaf.
ovigerons: Bearing eggs; oviferous.
ovile: See Ovine.
ovine: Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep.
ovipara: An artifical division of vertebrates, including those that layeggs; -opposed to Vivipara.
oviparity: Generatuon by means of ova. See Generation.
oviparous: Producing young from rggs; as, an oviparous animal, in whichthe egg is generally separated from the animal, and hatched afterexclusion; -- opposed to viviparous.
oviposit: To lay or deposit eggs; -- said esp. of insects.
ovipositor: The organ with which many insects and some other animalsdeposit their eggs. Some ichneumon files have a long ovipositorfitted to pierce the eggs or larvæ of other insects, in order to laytheir own eggs within the same.
ovism: The old theory that the egg contains the whole embryo of thefuture organism and the germs of all subsequent offsprings and ismerely awakened to activity by the spermatozoön; -- opposed tospermism or animalculism.
ovist: Same as Ovulist.
ovococcus: A germinal vesicle.
ovoid: A solid resembling an egg in shape.
ovolo: A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column.
ovology: That branch of natural history which treats of the origin andfunctions of eggs.
ovoplasma: Yolk; egg yolk. Haeckel.
ovotesttis: An organ which produces both ova and spermatozoids; anhermaphrodite gland.
ovoviviparous: Oviparous, but hatching the egg while it is within the body, assome fishes and reptiles.
ovular: Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth.
ovulary: Pertaining to ovules.
ovulate: Containing an ovule or ovules.
ovulation: The formation of ova or eggs in the ovary, and the discharge ofthe same. In the mammalian female the discharge occurs duringmenstruation.
ovuliferous: Producing ovules.
ovulist: A believer in the theory (called encasement theory), currentduring the last century, that the egg was the real animal germ, andthat at the time of fecundation the spermatozoa simply gave theimpetus which caused the unfolding of the egg, in which allgenerations were inclosed one within the other. Also called ovist.
ovulite: A fossil egg.
ovulum: An ovule.
ovum: A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granularprotoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth developsinto a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent;an egg, spore, germ, or germ cell. See Illust. of Mycropyle.
owch: See Ouch. [Obs.] Speser.
owel: Equal. [Obs.] Burrill.
owelty: Equality; -- sometimes written ovelty and ovealty. Burrill.
owen: Own. [Obs.] Chaucer.
owenite: A follower of Robert Owen, who tried to reorganize society on asocialistic basis, and established an industrial community on theClyde, Scotland, and, later, a similar one in Indiana.
owher: Anywhere. [Obs.] "If he found owher a good fellow." Chaucer.
owl: Any cpecies of raptorial birds of the family Strigidæ. Theyhave large eyes and ears, and a conspicuous circle of feathers aroundeach eye. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits.
owl-eyed: Having eyes like an owl's.
owler: One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. SeeOwling, n. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown.
owlery: An abode or a haunt of owls.
owlet: A small owl; especially, the European species (Athene noctua),and the California flammulated owlet (Megascops flammeolus). Owletmoth (Zoöl.), any noctuid moth.
owling: The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of Englandcontrary to the statute formerly existing. Blackstone.
owlish: Resembling, or characteristic of, an owl.
owlism: Affected wisdom; pompous dellness. [R.]
owllight: Glimmering or imperfect [R.] Bp. Warburton.
own: To grant; to acknowledge; to admit to be true; to confess; torecognize in a particular character; as, we own that we haveforfeited your love.The wakeful bloodhound rose, and shook his hide owns. Keats.
owner: One who owns; a rightful proprietor; one who has the legal orrightful title, whether he is the possessor or not. Shak.
ownerless: Without an owner.
ownership: The state of being an owner; the right to own; exclusive rightof possession; legal or just claim or title; proprietorship.
owre: The aurohs. [Obs.]
ox: The male of bovine quadrupeds, especially the domestic animalwhen castrated and grown to its full size, or nearly so. The word isalso applied, as a general name, to any species of bovine animals,male and female.All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field. Ps. viii. 7.
oxacid: See Oxyacid.
oxalan: A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan(or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate), as a stable whitecrystalline powder; -- called also oxaluramide.
oxalantin: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C6H4N4O5) obtainedby the reduction of parabanic acid; -- called also leucoturic acid.
oxalate: A salt of oxalic acid.
oxaldehyde: Same as Glyoxal.
oxalethyline: A poisonous nitrogenous base (C6H10N2) obtained indirectly fromoxamide as a thick transparent oil which has a strong narcotic odor,and a physiological action resembling that of atropine. It isprobably related to pyridine.
oxalic: Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, oroxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, andcharacteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheatfamily. Oxalic acid (Chem.), a dibasic acid, existing combined inoxalis as an acid potassium oxalate, and in many plant tissues as thecalcium oxalate. It is prepared on a large scale, by the action offused caustic soda or potash on sawdust, as a white crystallinesubstance, which has a strong acid taste, and is poisonous in largedoses. It is used in dyeing, calico printing, bleaching flax andstraw, the preparation of formic acid, and in salts of lemon forremoving ink stains, mold, etc.
oxaline: See Glyoxaline.
oxalis: A genus of plants,mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolateor multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel.
oxalite: A yellow mineral consisting of oxalate of iron.
oxaluramide: Same as Oxalan.
oxalurate: A salt of oxaluric acid.
oxaluric: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acidrelated to the ureids, and obtained from parabanic acid as a whitesilky crystalline substance.
oxamate: A salt of oxamic acid.
oxamethane: Ethyl oxamate, obtained as a white scaly crystalline powder.
oxamethylane: Methyl oxamate, obtained as a pearly white crystallinesubstance.
oxamic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained asa fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid andoxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide withammonia.
oxamide: A white crystalline neutral substance (C2O2(NH2)2) obtained bytreating ethyl oxalate with ammonia. It is the acid amide of oxalicacid. Formerly called also oxalamide.
oxamidine: One of a series of bases containing the amido and theisonitroso groups united to the same carbon atom.
oxanilate: A salt of oxanilic acid.
oxanilic: Pertaining to, or derived from, oxalic acid and aniline; --used to designate an acid obtained in white crystalline scales byheating these substances together.
oxanilide: a white crystalline substance, resembling oxanilamide, obtainedby heating aniline oxalate, and regarded as a double anilide ofoxalic acid; -- called also diphenyl oxamide.
oxbane: A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria) of the Cape ofGood Hope.
oxbiter: The cow blackbird. [Local, U. S.]
oxbow: A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, andembracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passingthrough the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in ariver.
oxeyed: Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox. Burton.
oxfly: The gadfly of cattle.
oxford: Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England.Oxford movement. See Tractarianism.-- Oxford School, a name given to those members of the Church ofEngland who adopted the theology of the so-called Oxford "Tracts forthe Times," issued the period 1833 -- 1841. Shipley.-- Oxford tie, a kind of shoe, laced on the instep, and usuallycovering the foot nearly to the ankle.
oxgang: See Bovate.
oxgoad: A goad for driving oxen.
oxhead: Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom); hence, adolt; a blockhead.Dost make a mummer of me, oxhead Marston.
oxheal: Same as Bear's-foot.
oxheart: A large heart-shaped cherry, either black, red, or white.
oxhide: A measure of land. See 3d Hide.
oxid: See Oxide.
oxidability: Capability of being converted into an oxide.
oxidable: Capable of being converted into an oxide.
oxidate: To oxidize. [Obs.]
oxidation: The act or process of oxidizing, or the state or result ofbeing oxidized.
oxide: A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or acompound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide,nitrogen oxide, etc.
oxidizable: Capable of being oxidized.
oxidize: To combine with oxygen, or subject to the action of oxygen, orof an oxidizing agent. Specifically:(a) To combine with oxygen or with more oxygen; to add oxygen to; as,to oxidize nitrous acid so as to form nitric acid.(b) To remove hydrogen from (anything), as by the action of oxygen;as, to oxidize alcohol so as to form aldehyde.(c) To subject to the action of oxygen or of an oxidizing agent, soas to bring to a higher grade, as an -ous compound to an -iccompound; as, to oxidize mercurous chloride to mercuric chloride.
oxidizement: Oxidation. [R.]
oxidizer: An agent employed in oxidation, or which facilitates or bringsabout combination with oxygen; as, nitric acid, chlorine, bromine,etc., are strong oxidizers.
oxidulated: Existing in the state of a protoxide; -- said of an oxide. [R.]
oxime: One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by theaction of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones.
oxindol: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C8H7NO) of the indolgroup, obtained by the reduction of dioxindol. It is a so-calledlactam compound.
oxiodic: Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of iodine andoxygen.
oxlike: Characteristic of, or like, an ox.
oxlip: The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior).
oxonate: A salt of oxonic acid.
oxonian: Of or relating to the city or the university of Oxford,England. Macaulay.
oxonic: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid(C4H5N3O4) not known in the free state, but obtained, in combinationwith its salts, by a slow oxidation of uric acid, to which it isrelated.
oxpecker: An African bird of the genus Buphaga; the beefeater.
oxshoe: A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed tothe hoof.
oxter: The armpit; also, the arm. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
oxtongue: A name given to several plants, from the shape and roughness oftheir leaves; as, Anchusa officinalis, a kind of bugloss, andHelminthia echioides, both European herbs.
oxy-: A prefix, also used adjectively, designating:(a) A compound containing oxygen.(b) A compound containing the hydroxyl group, more properlydesignated by hydroxy-. See Hydroxy-. Oxy acid. See Oxyacid (below).
oxyacetic: Hydroxyacetic; designating an acid called also glycolic acid.
oxyacid: An acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; -- contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, ashydrochloric acid. See Acid, and Hydroxy-.
oxyammonia: Same as Hydroxylamine.
oxybenzene: Hydroxy benzene. Same as Phenol.
oxybenzoic: Hydroxybenzoic; pertaining to, or designating, any one ofseveral hydroxyl derivatives of benzonic acid, of which the commonestis salicylic acid.
oxybromic: Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of oxygen andbromine.
oxybutyric: Hydroxybutyric; designating any one of a group of metamericacids (C3H6.OH.CO2H).
oxycalcium: Of or pertaining to oxygen and calcium; as, the oxycalciumlight. See Drummond light.
oxycaproic: See Leucic.
oxychloride: A ternary compound of oxygen and chlorine; as, plumbicoxychloride.
oxycrate: A Mixture of water and vinegar. Wiseman.
oxycymene: Hydroxy cymene. Same as Carvacrol.
oxygen: A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring inthe free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per centby weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavierthan nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96.
oxygenate: To unite, or cause to combine, with oxygen; to treat withoxygen; to oxidize; as, oxygenated water (hydrogen dioxide).
oxygenation: The act or process of combining or of treating with oxygen;oxidation.
oxygenator: An oxidizer.
oxygenic: Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, oxygen; producingoxygen.
oxygenium: The technical name of oxygen. [R.]
oxygenizable: Oxidizable.
oxygenize: To oxidize.
oxygenizement: Oxidation.
oxygenous: Oxygenic.
oxygon: A triangle having three acute angles.
oxyhydrogen: Of or pertaining to a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen; as,oxyhydrogen gas. Oxyhydrogen blowpipe. (Chem.) See Blowpipe.-- Oxyhydrogen microscope, a form of microscope arranged so as touse the light produced by burning lime or limestone under a currentof oxyhydrogen gas.
oxyhydrogen light: A light produced by the incandescence of some substances, esp.lime, in the oxyhydrogen flame. Coal gas (producing the oxygaslight), or the vapor of ether (oxyether light) or methylated spirit(oxyspirit light), may be substituted for hydrogen.
oxymel: A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to asirup. Sir T. Elyot.
oxymethylene: Formic aldehyde, regarded as a methylene derivative.
oxymoron: A figure in which an epithet of a contrary signification isadded to a word; e. g., cruel kindness; laborious idleness.
oxymuriate: A salt of the supposed oxymuriatic acid; a chloride. Oxymuriateof lime, chloride of lime.
oxymuriatic: Pertaining to, or consisting of, oxygen and muriatic acid, thatis, hydrochloric acid. [Archaic.] Oxymuriatic acid, chlorine,formerly so called on the supposition that it was a compound ofoxygen and muriatic acid. [Obs.]
oxyneurine: See Betaine.
oxyntic: Acid; producing acid; -applied especially to certain glands andcells in the stomach.
oxyphenic: Pertaining to, or designating, the phenol formerly calledoxyphenic acid, and now oxyphenol and pyrocatechin. See Pyrocatechin.
oxyphenol: A phenol, oxyphenic acid, and now pyrocatechin.
oxyphony: Acuteness or shrillness of voice.
oxyquinoline: Hydroxy quinoline; a phenol derivative of quinoline, -- calledalso carbostyril.
oxyrhyncha: The maioid crabs.
oxyrrhodine: A mixture of two parts of the oil of roses with one of thevinegar of roses. Floyer.
oxysalt: A salt of an oxyacid, as a sulphate.
oxysulphide: A ternary compound of oxygen and sulphur.
oxysulphuret: An oxysulphide. [Obsolescent]
oxytocic: Promoting uterine contractions, or parturition.-- n.
oxytoluene: One of three hydroxy derivatives of toluene, called thecresols. See Cresol.
oxytone: Having an acute sound; (Gr. Gram.), having an acute accent onthe last syllable.
oxytonical: Oxytone.
oyer: A hearing or an inspection, as of a deed, bond, etc., as when adefendant in court prays oyer of a writing. Blackstone. Oyer andterminer (Law), a term used in England in commissions directed tojudges of assize about to hold court, directing them to hear anddetermine cases brought before them. In the U.S. the phrase is usedto designate certain criminal courts.
oyez: Hear; attend; -- a term used by criers of courts to securesilence before making a proclamation. It is repeated three times.[Written also oyes.]
oylet: Same as Oillet.
oynoun: Onion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
oyster: Any marine bivalve mollusk of the genus Ostrea. They areusually found adhering to rocks or other fixed objects in shallowwater along the seacoasts, or in brackish water in the mouth ofrivers. The common European oyster (Ostrea edulis), and the Americanoyster (Ostrea Virginiana), are the most important species.
oyster-green: A green membranous seaweed (Ulva) often found growing onoysters but common on stones, piles, etc.
oystering: Gathering, or dredging for, oysters.
oysterling: A young oyster.
ozena: A discharge of fetid matter from the nostril, particularly ifassociated with ulceration of the soft parts and disease of the bonesof the nose.
ozocerite: A waxlike mineral resin; -- sometimes called native paraffin,and mineral wax.
ozonation: The act of treating with ozone; also, the act of convertinginto, or producing, ozone; ozonization.
ozone: A colorless gaseous substance (O
ozone paper: Paper coated with starch and potassium iodine. It turns bluewhen exposed to ozone.>-- also called starch-iodide paper -->
ozonic: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, ozone.